Blog home
The Potential of Predictive ML Models in Sigma
Fran Britschgi
SOLUTION ARCHITECT, AI & DATA SCIENCE
The Potential of Predictive ML Models in Sigma
Read Time 7 Min
Here’s what happened when we combined the machine learning models of Snowflake with the flexibility and cloud-nativeness of Sigma. Spoiler alert: Amazing things are suddenly possible.
The historical inability to fully integrate model-scoring capabilities into any Business Intelligence platform has created a barrier between business analysts and the machine learning work done in the modeling arm of an organization. In fact, it’s likely that you’ve experienced a consequence of this firsthand while you waited for the Data Science team to share its most recent model results before you could explore the results.
From my first days at Sigma, I started exploring ways that we could use the flexibility of the Sigma interface to use data science models directly through and from the cloud data warehouse. Fantastic work done at Snowflake on its Snowpark Platform has opened up the possibilities of registering open-source models into saved models within the CDW. Combine that with the strength and flexibility of Sigma’s connection to Snowflake, and we arrive at an exciting conclusion:
Business users make use of the models they need for their work—within the same tool they are doing the rest of their analyses—live on the data that is relevant to them. 
This makes the exclusive Data Science domain of robust, real-time, model-scoring possible in a BI platform and available to every business user across an organization. 
Score, Analyze, and Decide!
The Typical Machine-Learning Workflow Space Today
There are a few ways to present the results of ML models. That format could be visualizations,  which help to communicate the performance and predictions of a model to stakeholders. Or that format could be BI analytics, used to monitor the performance of a model over time and identify any issues that may require attention. 
In discussions of this workflow with a number of our commercial partners, I learned that many organizations deploy their models in roughly the same way:
Model is written, trained, and saved on a local machine or third party vendor.
Data is run through this model and scored to create relevant output variables (e.g., A company might run a model to determine whether or not an applicant is approved for a credit card).
Output files generated by the model are then uploaded to the server side of the BI tool in order to be visualized.
Often, this cumbersome workflow exists only because of technical limitations. And while functional in the most straightforward sense, it brings many weaknesses to an organization. I was able to identify five significant business consequences that were limiting our partners:
Delayed decision-making: The delay caused by having to manually push model output files to a BI tool often leads to delayed decision-making, as the data isn’t immediately available for analysis.‍
Lack of real-time monitoring: Without the ability to live-score data in a BI platform, organizations are unable to monitor their data in real-time, which can lead to missing important trends or issues as they occur.‍
Limited automation: If model output has to be pushed to a BI tool, organizations may not be able to fully automate certain business processes, such as data-error detection or predictive maintenance, which can lead to increased costs and inefficiencies.‍
Limited scalability: Without the ability to live-score data in a BI tool, organizations may have limited scalability when it comes to data analysis, as they may have to rely on manual processes to handle increasing amounts of data, such as partitioning the data.‍‍
Limited data product offering: Without the ability to live-score data in a BI tool, organizations are further limited in their ability to provide modern, sophisticated data offerings like customer recommendations or live predictions in their customer-facing products.
Read more about Sigma AI here.
Example Use Case
Imagine that you work for the technology retail company PLUGS, and you are interested in exploring the model that the company uses to approve customers for its exclusive Loyalty Program. You’ve been told that only the best of the best get approved for the Loyalty Program and its generous perks, and as an analyst charged with exploring the kind of impact this may have on PLUGS revenue, you are certainly interested in exactly who “the best of the best are”.
Thanks to Snowflake’s Snowpark, your Data Science team has been able to develop and register that model in Snowflake, alongside your customer database. As a result, the organization now has access to that model through Sigma’s Pass-Through functions—in other words, they can call their ML Loyalty Model,  just like any other Sigma function! 
Now that we have access to the Loyalty Program determination for all customers in the dataset, our next steps are as open-ended as the entire Sigma platform. We can build visualizations to plot out Easy-to-Understand charts  in order to thoroughly understand the accuracy of our model. For an example, we can plot the rates of True Positives and True Negatives, where test customers were accurately categorized.
Apply Model
Visualizations to plot out Easy-to-Understand charts in order to thoroughly understand the accuracy of our model.
Or we may be interested in how our model assesses people around the country or across variables not included in the model, like gender. This is a critical aspect of model validation and ensures ethical models.
Model Audit
This visualization shows how our model assesses people around the country or across variables not included in the model, like gender. This is a critical aspect of model validation and ensures ethical models.
Or perhaps we want to explain to a high-level stakeholder how the model works—or how the effects of the model express across a single variable, like age. We can clearly see that age doesn’t have much of an effect until the elderly, at which point the model begins to exhibit a clear bias.
‍Model Profiler 
We can clearly see that age doesn’t have much of an effect until the elderly, at which point the model begins to exhibit a clear bias.
Or maybe we want to make use of Sigma’s easy-to-run Joins and pull in data on 4.5 million rows of retail sales to analyze the customer profile of each store that we’ve sold in—we may be interested in predicting how different stores and their product offerings may support different loyalty groups!
We can look at 4.5 million rows of retail sales to analyze the customer profile of each store that we’ve sold in—we may be interested in predicting how different stores may support different loyalty groups.
But the best synergy between Sigma and Snowpark can be found in Sigma’s Input Table functionality, where users can input brand new data directly alongside their CDW data. Input Tables revolutionize the way business users can interact with cloud scale data, and we can apply the same benefits to their interactions with data science tools. As a result, business users can instantly see the impact of governed models on hypothetical data.
Method
Thanks to the direct connection between Sigma and Snowflake’s Snowpark, the framework already exists for establishing a live-scoring system within Sigma itself. Here’s how you can make it happen: 
Use Python to define, register, and train the model natively in Snowflake with the Snowpark developer framework, allowing for the use of the model within the Snowflake platform. Snowflake has built an excellent QuickStart resource to walk you through the process.
Create a UDF (User-Defined Function) in Snowflake that allows organization members to use the model on new data, making the model accessible and usable for a wide range of users.
Access the UDF through a Sigma Pass-Through Function, allowing the model to be used for creating Sigma Workbooks and Datasets.
Build out your first workbook in Sigma to assess the model and its results, providing visibility into the performance of the model and making it easy for stakeholders to understand and interact with the data and the model. 
These steps provide a balance of flexibility, scalability, and governance, while also making sure that the model is accessible to the users who need it and providing visibility into the performance of the model.
Conclusion
In short, we have formalized a methodology for real-time model scoring without ever having to leave the BI platform—all while remaining within the  governed framework of a Snowpark-deployed model in Snowflake. The extensions and applications of this methodology go far beyond the imagination of the author—a proposition that eagerly awaits the input from Sigma users across the world! As a start, I would love to address the limitations that were listed earlier in this article, adjusted to reflect the realities of a Sigma + Snowpark solution space. 
Real-time decision-making: The scored data is immediately available for analysis, eliminating the delayed decision-making caused by manual model push methods.‍
Real-time monitoring: The ability to monitor the data and model outputs enhances your business user’s live view of important trends and issues. Alerting will be done at the instant that new data enters the system. ‍
Enhanced automation: With direct model output, organizations enhance the ability to automate certain business processes, such as data-error detection or predictive maintenance, giving your team further ability to decrease costs and time-heavy operations.‍
Full scalability: When the model runs directly within the CDW alongside the data, organizations will not face the limited scalability inherent in a local-scoring methodology, where they may have to rely on manual processes to handle increasing amounts of data, such as partitioning the data.‍
Enhanced data product offering: With the ability to live-score data in a BI tool, organizations are further empowered by Sigma in their ability to provide modern, sophisticated data offerings like customer recommendations or live predictions in their customer-facing products.
Request a demo of Sigma or set up a free trial.
‍
Want to learn about other amazing things Sigma is up to? Check out Sigma’s newest AI Initiative, Sigma AI.
THE ULTIMATE KPI PLAYBOOK
AI/ML
See
WATCH ON-DEMAND DEMOS
Experience
ATTEND AN EVENT
Try
GET A FREE TRIAL
Explore
INTERACTIVE DEMOS
Connect
JOIN THE COMMUNITY
Meet
SCHEDULE A CALL


Get Sigma in
your inbox
Country *
Canada
United Kingdom
United States
------------------
Afghanistan
Åland Islands
Albania
Algeria
American Samoa
Andorra
Angola
Anguilla
Antarctica
Antigua and Barbuda
Argentina
Armenia
Aruba
Asia/Pacific Region
Australia
Austria
Azerbaijan
Bahamas
Bahrain
Bangladesh
Barbados
Belarus
Belgium
Belize
Benin
Bermuda
Bhutan
Bolivia
Bosnia and Herzegovina
Botswana
Bouvet Island
Brazil
British Indian Ocean Territory
British Virgin Islands
Brunei
Bulgaria
Burkina Faso
Burundi
Cambodia
Cameroon
Canary Islands
Cape Verde
Caribbean Netherlands
Cayman Islands
Central African Republic
Chad
Chile
China
Christmas Island
Cocos (Keeling) Islands
Colombia
Comoros
Congo
Cook Islands
Costa Rica
Cote d'Ivoire
Croatia
Cuba
Curaçao
Cyprus
Czech Republic
Democratic Republic of the Congo
Denmark
Djibouti
Dominica
Dominican Republic
East Timor
Ecuador
Egypt
El Salvador
Equatorial Guinea
Eritrea
Estonia
Ethiopia
Europe
Falkland Islands
Faroe Islands
Fiji
Finland
France
French Guiana
French Polynesia
French Southern and Antarctic Lands
Gabon
Gambia
Georgia
Germany
Ghana
Gibraltar
Greece
Greenland
Grenada
Guadeloupe
Guam
Guatemala
Guernsey
Guinea
Guinea-Bissau
Guyana
Haiti
Heard Island and McDonald Islands
Honduras
Hong Kong
Hungary
Iceland
India
Indonesia
Iran
Iraq
Ireland
Isle of Man
Israel
Italy
Jamaica
Japan
Jersey
Jordan
Kazakhstan
Kenya
Kiribati
Kosovo
Kuwait
Kyrgyzstan
Laos
Latvia
Lebanon
Lesotho
Liberia
Libya
Liechtenstein
Lithuania
Luxembourg
Macau
Macedonia (FYROM)
Madagascar
Malawi
Malaysia
Maldives
Mali
Malta
Marshall Islands
Martinique
Mauritania
Mauritius
Mayotte
Mexico
Micronesia
Moldova
Monaco
Mongolia
Montenegro
Montserrat
Morocco
Mozambique
Myanmar (Burma)
Namibia
Nauru
Nepal
Netherlands
Netherlands Antilles
New Caledonia
New Zealand
Nicaragua
Niger
Nigeria
Niue
Norfolk Island
North Korea
Northern Mariana Islands
Norway
Oman
Pakistan
Palau
Palestine
Panama
Papua New Guinea
Paraguay
Peru
Philippines
Pitcairn Islands
Poland
Portugal
Puerto Rico
Qatar
Réunion
Romania
Russia
Rwanda
Saint Barthélemy
Saint Helena
Saint Kitts and Nevis
Saint Lucia
Saint Martin
Saint Pierre and Miquelon
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
Samoa
San Marino
Sao Tome and Principe
Saudi Arabia
Senegal
Serbia
Seychelles
Sierra Leone
Singapore
Sint Maarten
Slovakia
Slovenia
Solomon Islands
Somalia
South Africa
South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands
South Korea
South Sudan
Spain
Sri Lanka
Sudan
Suriname
Svalbard and Jan Mayen
Swaziland
Sweden
Switzerland
Syria
Taiwan
Tajikistan
Tanzania
Thailand
Togo
Tokelau
Tonga
Trinidad and Tobago
Tunisia
Turkey
Turkmenistan
Turks and Caicos Islands
Tuvalu
U.S. Virgin Islands
Uganda
Ukraine
United Arab Emirates
United States Minor Outlying Islands
Uruguay
Uzbekistan
Vanuatu
Vatican City
Venezuela
Vietnam
Wallis and Futuna
Western Sahara
Yemen
Zambia
Zimbabwe
OPT-IN REQUIRED: I would like to receive promotional emails from Sigma Computing. I understand that I can unsubscribe at any time and that Sigma Computing's use of my email address is governed by its Privacy Policy. By submitting, you consent to allow Sigma Computing to store and process the personal data from this form to fulfill your request.*
Enterprise BI. Spreadsheet UI.
FEATURES
Platform overview
AI / ML
Collaboration
Governance
Python / SQL
Write-back
All features
Product Launch
CAPABILITIES
Spreadsheets
Reports
Dashboards
Data Apps
Embedded Analytics
Self-service
Interactive Demos
BY INDUSTRY
Financial Services
Healthcare
Retail & CPG
BY ROLE
Analyst
Business Leader
Data Engineer
Finance
IT / Data
Marketing
Product
Sales
Supply Chain
INTEGRATIONS
Snowflake
Databricks
AWS
Azure
Google Cloud
CONTACT
Contact us
Request a demo
Get support
RESOURCES
Blog
Documentation
eBooks
Lightboard videos
Learning Center
Resource Center
EVENTS
Live events
On-demand webinars
Snowflake Summit
Databricks Summit
Data Monetization
Community events
Free trial
GET HANDS-ON
Free trial
Live demos
Product Tour
Sigma Library
SUPPORT
Get support
Community
Product FAQs
QuickStarts
Documentation
Bug Bounty
Sigma Status
COMPANY
About us
Newsroom
Security Center
Customers
Why Sigma?
Comparison
Careers
PARTNERS
Program overview
Technology partners
Consulting partners
Partner Integrations
© 2025 Sigma Computing
Privacy Policy
Cookie Policy
Website Terms of Service
Subprocessors
Site Index
Cookies Settings
By clicking “Accept All Cookies”, you agree to the storing of cookies on your device to enhance site navigation, analyze site usage, and assist in our marketing efforts.
Cookies Settings Accept All Cookies