Blog home
Declining Airbnb, Snapchat, and Uber for a Stealth Startup
Kenneth Truong
SOFTWARE ENGINEER
Declining Airbnb, Snapchat, and Uber for a Stealth Startup
On April 18, 2016, an email from a recruiter caught my eye. A stealth mode startup was looking to hire their first frontend engineer. The timing was perfect; I was just about to begin my job hunt. After working at bigger companies like Amazon, Qualcomm, and Informatica, I realized I wanted to make a more significant impact. Thus, I decided to give this startup called Sigma a shot.
The only thing I could find on the startup was this “photoshopped” (so he says…) picture of the co-founder 🤣
The On-site Interview
Excited for a change, I stepped on a plane from sunny San Diego and set off to San Francisco. When I arrived at their office, Suite 420, I was greeted by the recruiter. The lighting in the office was dim, perfect for coding. I was brought into the interview room where I individually met with the whole company; a total of 4 people including Rob and Jason, the co-founders. It was my first onsite interview in over a year, so I didn’t exactly kill it. I left wondering if I would receive an offer or not.
But I didn’t have time to worry. I had an interview the next day with Uber, one of my top choices. The interviews were just as challenging, leaving me completely exhausted. As I was leaving the building, I turned on my phone to request an Uber. I noticed an unread email. It was from Sigma. Did I fail? It said to give the recruiter a call as soon as possible. I nervously dialed his number.
What? I received the offer? Sigma actually wanted me!
Soon after, the other offers came in. I was ecstatic! However, I had trouble deciding. I wasn’t sold on Sigma yet. My friends and family told me that such an early stage startup had a high chance of failure (They hadn’t even launched a product yet!) and that I shouldn’t take so much risk when I had these other amazing offers. While I was having these doubts, the recruiter set me up to speak with Mike Speiser, a managing partner at Sutter Hill Ventures (the VC firm that funds Sigma and incubated Snowflake). I looked him up on Google. Shit. Mike actually wanted to talk to me?
He had an amazing background with a proven history of successful exits. I was impressed that he was willing to take time off his calendar to even speak with me.
Mike spoke about how smart and amazing the co-founders are and about all the successful companies he’s started. Mike then hyped me up on the company’s mission and how this startup was a game changer.
I was sold right then and there. Mike has this charm that can get you excited on just about anything. I promptly called the recruiter and accepted the offer.
This was a rare opportunity to be the first frontend engineer at an early stage startup. At this point, all my other startup offers were for well over 100–1000+ people. The few small ones just did not have the same credentials as Rob, Jason, and Mike. I went all in. I called the other startups to decline their offers.
What could they do to change my mind? Nothing. They tried to increase their offers. But I was committed. I was going to make a BIG impact.
My First Day
When I started on June 13, 2016, there were 7 people in the office including me and a newly hired backend engineer who had worked at Facebook. I was nervous. Working so closely with these amazing people gave me imposter syndrome. But I put in the hours and contributed as much as I could. We spent the next few months building out features until we decided to try to get our first user.
How our original office looked. (We outgrew this office and now have an even better office!)
Launching Sigma
Even though the product was still a work-in-progress, September 1, 2016 would be our first product launch. I stayed up all night polishing up the landing page of the website. I was that excited to try to get our first user! I took a quick nap on the office couch around 6 AM.
Later that morning, the moment of truth finally arrived. We deployed sigmacomputing.com.
Lo and behold… NO NEW USERS.
Well shit… I wasn’t sure what I expected… We didn’t have a marketing or sales team, but surely we could have gotten at least one user, right?
This was a definite stumbling block, but I didn’t let it get to me. We continued building, hoping some users would eventually find us. A few weeks passed, then months. The only users we had were our close friends who tried out the product, but no one could see value in it yet. Sutter Hill was trying to help fill an executive sales position without luck. I think the majority of us were starting to feel demoralized because I sure was. I was beginning to burn out.
I started to wonder if I had made the wrong choice. Should I have taken the safe route and joined the startups that were already on track to IPO? I could have been eating free food! (Sigma now offer free meals.)
Thankfully Carol, a close friend and designer at Sigma, pushed me to stick it out for at least another year. She reminded me how Sutter Hill always make sure that the startups does well one way or another. Since I had already put in almost a year, I should at least see it all through.
The Turning Point
One weekend, during one of my demos to friends, a business analyst mentioned how Sigma could be helpful for her previous company. What? Really?! Perhaps this was it! Maybe this company could become our first user! I asked her if she could introduce us. Unfortunately, they were busy with a deadline, so we had to schedule a meeting a few months later.
But no matter! This sparked a HUGE fire in me. Someone had actually said that our product might be useful! I was excited that this could be the start that we desperately needed.
And so the next day, I told everyone at Sigma about how we could potentially be saving this company thousands per month from time saved for just one use case. I then continued on a really long ramble about how we needed to make use of our friends and network, especially the startups within the Sutter Hill portfolio like Snowflake and Pure Storage. Maybe others would find it useful. I had gone on for so long that Carol had to save the day by saying “ok! we get it!” just so everyone could go to lunch 😅
Soon after, Rob and Jason scheduled a meeting with Snowflake for next month, but we weren’t sure how to pitch Sigma to Snowflake. We were building a spreadsheet interface with our own query language. And on top of that, you had to store your data with us. In hindsight, we were trying to do too much. It was already a challenge to convince users to move their data into Sigma, so it would have been an even harder pitch to Snowflake, a cloud storage and compute product.
The Pivot
Luckily, Jason came up with this brilliant idea of building our spreadsheet interface on top of Snowflake (we now also support BigQuery, Redshift, and Postgres). He pitched an updated interface that was different from all the current products out there. This interface made it much easier to do analysis without writing a single line of code or SQL. We quickly shifted gears, scrapped everything we had built, and pivoted to make a new MVP (Minimal Viable Product). We spent a month working long nights and weekends getting this MVP out, but we were excited to make a good impression.
On April 11, 2017, Jason and Rob went to Snowflake to demo the new product. The rest of us decided to take it easy and wait for the news.
At 3:50 PM, Rob sent a message
Jason and I can give you the full summary when we’re back tomorrow, but the demo went well. And Snowflake is going to be our first alpha customer! We’re hoping to have them using Sigma in ~2 weeks (on Snowflake) so we’re going to be busy 🙂
Fuck Yes! I could see long nights ahead of us. But it didn’t matter. This was what I was here for. We were about to get our first real user!
We knew we were onto something. The market was moving to the cloud and Snowflake was rapidly growing. Soon after we raised our Series B and moved into the next phase of the company. It was time to scale.
HODL 🚀
This was the turning point for Sigma. Things were starting to take shape. We hired a sales team. We started to see deals closed. First it was names I haven’t heard of before like Volta and Zumper. Then as we added more features, we started to see recognizable names. Philz Coffee. Blue Bottle Coffee. Clover. Farmer’s Insurance. AutoDesk. US FOODS. (And more!)
Shit. Was this real? Did we make something that people wanted? HELL YEAH!
As the years passed, I have grown more confident in Sigma. Though we had a slow start, based on our current trajectory, we’ll have unicorn status in a year or two. We’ve doubled in size every year since I’ve joined. At the time of this writing, we have grown to 135 people and now have an amazing marketing and sales team!
If there was ever a time to join, I would say now is the perfect time because we’re starting to experience the most growth we’ve ever seen and will continue to have 200% - 300% YoY growth, which is amazing for a SaaS company. When does anyone ever get the chance to join an early stage startup that will become a multi-billion dollar company?
P.S. We’re hiring for all roles, so come join this rocket ship! 🚀🚀🚀
Our office is opening up so you’ll get to meet flat-Rob. (Our office manager ordered this a few years ago. It’s our office mascot.)
I had a lot of fun throughout the years. Pranks on Rob’s birthday. (His wife sent me a picture of what he was wearing when he wasn’t looking. I went shopping that morning and added corn starch to my hair 🙃)
During the pandemic, the company pranked Rob on his birthday (We photoshopped a picture of him as our background) Rob can’t get away from us!
‍
THE ULTIMATE KPI PLAYBOOK
Engineering
See
WATCH ON-DEMAND DEMOS
Experience
ATTEND AN EVENT
Try
GET A FREE TRIAL
Explore
INTERACTIVE DEMOS
Connect
JOIN THE COMMUNITY
Meet
SCHEDULE A CALL


Get Sigma in
your inbox
Country *
Canada
United Kingdom
United States
------------------
Afghanistan
Åland Islands
Albania
Algeria
American Samoa
Andorra
Angola
Anguilla
Antarctica
Antigua and Barbuda
Argentina
Armenia
Aruba
Asia/Pacific Region
Australia
Austria
Azerbaijan
Bahamas
Bahrain
Bangladesh
Barbados
Belarus
Belgium
Belize
Benin
Bermuda
Bhutan
Bolivia
Bosnia and Herzegovina
Botswana
Bouvet Island
Brazil
British Indian Ocean Territory
British Virgin Islands
Brunei
Bulgaria
Burkina Faso
Burundi
Cambodia
Cameroon
Canary Islands
Cape Verde
Caribbean Netherlands
Cayman Islands
Central African Republic
Chad
Chile
China
Christmas Island
Cocos (Keeling) Islands
Colombia
Comoros
Congo
Cook Islands
Costa Rica
Cote d'Ivoire
Croatia
Cuba
Curaçao
Cyprus
Czech Republic
Democratic Republic of the Congo
Denmark
Djibouti
Dominica
Dominican Republic
East Timor
Ecuador
Egypt
El Salvador
Equatorial Guinea
Eritrea
Estonia
Ethiopia
Europe
Falkland Islands
Faroe Islands
Fiji
Finland
France
French Guiana
French Polynesia
French Southern and Antarctic Lands
Gabon
Gambia
Georgia
Germany
Ghana
Gibraltar
Greece
Greenland
Grenada
Guadeloupe
Guam
Guatemala
Guernsey
Guinea
Guinea-Bissau
Guyana
Haiti
Heard Island and McDonald Islands
Honduras
Hong Kong
Hungary
Iceland
India
Indonesia
Iran
Iraq
Ireland
Isle of Man
Israel
Italy
Jamaica
Japan
Jersey
Jordan
Kazakhstan
Kenya
Kiribati
Kosovo
Kuwait
Kyrgyzstan
Laos
Latvia
Lebanon
Lesotho
Liberia
Libya
Liechtenstein
Lithuania
Luxembourg
Macau
Macedonia (FYROM)
Madagascar
Malawi
Malaysia
Maldives
Mali
Malta
Marshall Islands
Martinique
Mauritania
Mauritius
Mayotte
Mexico
Micronesia
Moldova
Monaco
Mongolia
Montenegro
Montserrat
Morocco
Mozambique
Myanmar (Burma)
Namibia
Nauru
Nepal
Netherlands
Netherlands Antilles
New Caledonia
New Zealand
Nicaragua
Niger
Nigeria
Niue
Norfolk Island
North Korea
Northern Mariana Islands
Norway
Oman
Pakistan
Palau
Palestine
Panama
Papua New Guinea
Paraguay
Peru
Philippines
Pitcairn Islands
Poland
Portugal
Puerto Rico
Qatar
Réunion
Romania
Russia
Rwanda
Saint Barthélemy
Saint Helena
Saint Kitts and Nevis
Saint Lucia
Saint Martin
Saint Pierre and Miquelon
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
Samoa
San Marino
Sao Tome and Principe
Saudi Arabia
Senegal
Serbia
Seychelles
Sierra Leone
Singapore
Sint Maarten
Slovakia
Slovenia
Solomon Islands
Somalia
South Africa
South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands
South Korea
South Sudan
Spain
Sri Lanka
Sudan
Suriname
Svalbard and Jan Mayen
Swaziland
Sweden
Switzerland
Syria
Taiwan
Tajikistan
Tanzania
Thailand
Togo
Tokelau
Tonga
Trinidad and Tobago
Tunisia
Turkey
Turkmenistan
Turks and Caicos Islands
Tuvalu
U.S. Virgin Islands
Uganda
Ukraine
United Arab Emirates
United States Minor Outlying Islands
Uruguay
Uzbekistan
Vanuatu
Vatican City
Venezuela
Vietnam
Wallis and Futuna
Western Sahara
Yemen
Zambia
Zimbabwe
OPT-IN REQUIRED: I would like to receive promotional emails from Sigma Computing. I understand that I can unsubscribe at any time and that Sigma Computing's use of my email address is governed by its Privacy Policy. By submitting, you consent to allow Sigma Computing to store and process the personal data from this form to fulfill your request.*
Enterprise BI. Spreadsheet UI.
FEATURES
Platform overview
AI / ML
Collaboration
Governance
Python / SQL
Write-back
All features
Product Launch
CAPABILITIES
Spreadsheets
Reports
Dashboards
Data Apps
Embedded Analytics
Self-service
Interactive Demos
BY INDUSTRY
Financial Services
Healthcare
Retail & CPG
BY ROLE
Analyst
Business Leader
Data Engineer
Finance
IT / Data
Marketing
Product
Sales
Supply Chain
INTEGRATIONS
Snowflake
Databricks
AWS
Azure
Google Cloud
CONTACT
Contact us
Request a demo
Get support
RESOURCES
Blog
Documentation
eBooks
Lightboard videos
Learning Center
Resource Center
EVENTS
Live events
On-demand webinars
Snowflake Summit
Databricks Summit
Data Monetization
Community events
Free trial
GET HANDS-ON
Free trial
Live demos
Product Tour
Sigma Library
SUPPORT
Get support
Community
Product FAQs
QuickStarts
Documentation
Bug Bounty
Sigma Status
COMPANY
About us
Newsroom
Security Center
Customers
Why Sigma?
Comparison
Careers
PARTNERS
Program overview
Technology partners
Consulting partners
Partner Integrations
© 2025 Sigma Computing
Privacy Policy
Cookie Policy
Website Terms of Service
Subprocessors
Site Index
Cookies Settings
By clicking “Accept All Cookies”, you agree to the storing of cookies on your device to enhance site navigation, analyze site usage, and assist in our marketing efforts.
Cookies Settings Accept All Cookies