Blog home
Semantic Modeling with Sigma
Dillon Morrison
DIRECTOR OF PRODUCT MANAGEMENT
Semantic Modeling with Sigma
SEPTEMBER 17, 2024
I’m thrilled to announce the upcoming launch of Sigma’s newest functionality coming this October: Data Models. 
Since Sigma’s inception, we’ve been the market leader for ad-hoc and self-service analytics. Sigma provides users with a window into their cloud data warehouse through a familiar Excel-style interface, so users of any technical sophistication can finally get access to their company’s data without going through a data analyst. With Sigma’s spreadsheet UI, customers like DoorDash, Blackstone, and US Foods conduct highly-performant analytics on massive, cloud-scale data. Our 1000+ customers and their amazing data journeys demonstrate the value that Sigma’s self-service capabilities bring to an organization.
With the introduction of Data Models, we’re bolstering Sigma’s self-service capabilities with a robust semantic layer and all the benefits that come with it, including metric consistency, reusability, governance, versioning, and more. 
Why now?
Sigma has served our customers well for years without a full-fledged semantic modeling layer. Why is now the right time to build these modeling capabilities? 
Providing users with self-service analytics capabilities inevitably leads to more data analysis across an organization. This is a great thing! It means that your team is getting value from your organization’s data, and you’ve created a powerful self-service environment. Give yourself a pat on the back! However, with more analytics and dashboards, there’s a greater chance that different users are defining the same metrics differently. As a result, we received feedback that users wanted a canonical definition for certain company KPIs. 
In response to this feedback, we launched Metrics, and we immediately saw over half of our customers rebuild key workflows around this new object. Our customers quickly recognized the value of centralizing around a consistent definition of a key business metric in their business intelligence layer. They particularly emphasized the benefits of letting departmental team members define Metrics themselves without involving the data team or learning to write any code.
For example, Our VP of Operations, Orla Clifford, knows the constantly changing logic and definitions of key business metrics better than any of our data analysts. She runs the business; she’s in the best place to define key company KPIs like “Enterprise ARR,” “Engaged Customer Count,” and “Net Dollar Retention.” She’s also the best person to update those metric definitions as our business evolves and we make changes to our Salesforce schema and field definitions. Sigma’s Metrics functionality allows Orla to define and manage those metrics, and she never needed to learn SQL or coordinate with our data team. She handled everything herself, with no tech bottlenecks or middlemen, just as she should.
Stories like Orla’s encouraged us to deliver more functionality to help ensure consistency and reusability. It also encouraged us to do it in a way that deepens our strengths around self-service and business user empowerment. How did we do that? By starting with a few key principles:
1) Built with a no-code UI for speed and accessibility
Just like the rest of Sigma, users can build full semantic data models in an entirely no-code environment. This makes data modeling concepts accessible to central data teams, departmental analysts, and line-of-business owners. Business owners are closest to their problems. Like Orla, they understand their business logic best and should be able to define tables and metrics without learning to code (assuming you give them the right permissions). 
This seems obvious, right? The users that are closest to the business know their calculations best. So why don’t other tools allow business users to define business logic and metrics? Historically, Analytics & BI tools have required users to learn complex or proprietary coding languages to create centralized business logic. They required this because expressing business logic and metric definitions required an understanding of the underlying properties of the tables in a database and the SQL required to pull that data. These concepts are prohibitively foreign to most business users, and for good reason. Most users shouldn’t have to learn SQL; they should spend their time working on their specialized jobs, where they can add the most value to their organizations. A sales rep should be working on their accounts, not spending time learning query languages. This is where Sigma’s unique Excel-style interface sets us apart. Sigma has already done the heavy backend work to translate standard spreadsheet syntax to SQL; it’s the core innovation upon which Sigma was built. So, with Sigma, users can express definitions in standard spreadsheet syntax (the true lingua franca of everyday analytics) rather than learning SQL or complex proprietary languages. 
To layer on additional governance, admins can optionally set up approval workflows to designate specific users that must approve metric creation and edits before they’re pushed to the rest of the org. If you want your internal data analysts to approve every new metric that business users create, Sigma wants to fully support and encourage that workflow. Data teams should be able to decide on a per-team or per-user basis which users in your org can create, edit, and share metrics and models with the rest of your org. 
2) Flexibility based your skills and your use-case
Many organizations consider self-service and consistency to be opposite sides of a spectrum (many technical publications even prescribe processes to balance these extremes). Data teams have often felt as though they need to choose one at the cost of the other. They can provide unrestrained access to data to deliver self-service for their organization, but at the cost of inconsistent and inaccurate calculations (try asking four different analysts to calculate the same number for you). Or, they restrict their users' access to the data but ensure high-quality, consistent calculations with tools that require heavy upfront data modeling and offer limited ad-hoc abilities to any employee outside the data team. We’ve long lived in this world of perceived tradeoffs, and each organization has had to pick and choose what they care about most. 
At Sigma, we believe this is a false tradeoff. Data teams need the best of those worlds. They should have the ability to offer their organizations unrestrained access to data by default, but also have the ability to introduce highly-governed metrics and calculations when and where consistency is critical.
With Sigma, you can create governed data models for any department or use case, and keep the rest of your data open and accessible. Lockdown key metrics for your executives while empowering departmental users to run ad-hoc analyses on your warehouse tables. Clean and lockdown your 'active_customer' table for your revenue team, while leaving the 'event' table in its raw form for your curious, tinkering engineers. 
Unlike many other tools, Sigma will never require you to model all your data up front. You can always opt to give teammates direct access to warehouse tables. You choose what data, when, and for whom to build semantic models.
3) Integrated into the Ecosystem 
Unlike other tools, Sigma is leaning into the data ecosystem rather than fighting against it. 
You can define Metrics and other business logic in Sigma, then consume them wherever you’d like. Use Sigma’s upcoming Metrics APIs to pull metric values or definitions into notebooks, custom applications, or any other third-party tool. This ensures all your business logic is defined one-time, in one-place. No more duplicated logic across multiple applications. 
“The dbt + Sigma partnership offers a perfect combination for our customers that want best-of-breed BI on top of a centrally governed semantic layer where all critical business metrics can be defined and managed in one place.”
- Nick Handel, Head of Semantic Layer at dbt Labs
If you’d prefer to keep your business logic outside of your BI tool because you want to avoid vendor lock-in, or you use your own homegrown metrics layer, or you simply prefer a standalone semantic layer, Sigma wants to fully support these architectures as well. We’re actively developing integrations with our standalone semantic layer and data catalog partners, such as DBTs Semantic Layer, Databricks Unity Catalog, Cube.dev, Atlan, and more. 
“We’re thrilled to partner with Sigma to integrate their BI capabilities with our semantic layer. The Cube + Sigma solution is perfect for any company that wants all the benefits of a centralized semantic layer, with the industry-leading self-service capabilities of Sigma’s spreadsheet interface.”
- Brian Bickell, VP of Strategy and Alliances at Cube
In the near-term, you’ll be able to query these standalone semantic layers and visualize and share the results directly in Sigma. In the long-term, Sigma will provide bidirectional integrations with these tools to help you move your business logic to wherever it makes the most sense. You can define business logic in either Sigma or a separate layer, then seamlessly push and pull that logic between the two. You can choose when and where to keep your logic based on your needs and your skillset. And critically, this business logic will always stay synced, so there’s never any discrepancies between Sigma and the other tools in your ecosystem. 
4) Leveraged for AI
Lastly, the benefits of defining metrics and table relationships extend beyond Sigma’s classic workbook interface. Sigma’s AI features take full advantage of these concepts to improve suggestions and increase accuracy. When a user asks a question using Sigma’s Natural Language Querying interface, our AI will reference any Metric definitions and factor those into our output. 
Think about a Metric like “engaged users.” Asking an AI copilot to calculate the number of “engaged users” in your app leaves all kinds of room for interpretation. Is a user that logs in everyday “engaged”? Or does a user need to take specific actions like completing a task list to meet the “engaged” criteria? Rather than leaving this up to the copilot, Sigma’s AI will leverage our existing metric definitions to ensure that we’re providing the most accurate and transparent answer possible.
What’s coming next
Data Models are just the start of the journey. We’re investing heavily in modeling and governance capabilities, with plenty of exciting projects on the roadmap: fanout awareness and prevention, data validation, unit tests, reusable visualizations, approval workflows, improvements to versioning, and more. 
As always, we’d love to hear feedback. How does our approach resonate with your business and data needs? What can we do better? Are there any killer features you’d like to see? Let us know! 
THE ULTIMATE KPI PLAYBOOK
Product
See
WATCH ON-DEMAND DEMOS
Experience
ATTEND AN EVENT
Try
GET A FREE TRIAL
Explore
INTERACTIVE DEMOS
Connect
JOIN THE COMMUNITY
Meet
SCHEDULE A CALL


Get Sigma in
your inbox
Country *
Canada
United Kingdom
United States
------------------
Afghanistan
Åland Islands
Albania
Algeria
American Samoa
Andorra
Angola
Anguilla
Antarctica
Antigua and Barbuda
Argentina
Armenia
Aruba
Asia/Pacific Region
Australia
Austria
Azerbaijan
Bahamas
Bahrain
Bangladesh
Barbados
Belarus
Belgium
Belize
Benin
Bermuda
Bhutan
Bolivia
Bosnia and Herzegovina
Botswana
Bouvet Island
Brazil
British Indian Ocean Territory
British Virgin Islands
Brunei
Bulgaria
Burkina Faso
Burundi
Cambodia
Cameroon
Canary Islands
Cape Verde
Caribbean Netherlands
Cayman Islands
Central African Republic
Chad
Chile
China
Christmas Island
Cocos (Keeling) Islands
Colombia
Comoros
Congo
Cook Islands
Costa Rica
Cote d'Ivoire
Croatia
Cuba
Curaçao
Cyprus
Czech Republic
Democratic Republic of the Congo
Denmark
Djibouti
Dominica
Dominican Republic
East Timor
Ecuador
Egypt
El Salvador
Equatorial Guinea
Eritrea
Estonia
Ethiopia
Europe
Falkland Islands
Faroe Islands
Fiji
Finland
France
French Guiana
French Polynesia
French Southern and Antarctic Lands
Gabon
Gambia
Georgia
Germany
Ghana
Gibraltar
Greece
Greenland
Grenada
Guadeloupe
Guam
Guatemala
Guernsey
Guinea
Guinea-Bissau
Guyana
Haiti
Heard Island and McDonald Islands
Honduras
Hong Kong
Hungary
Iceland
India
Indonesia
Iran
Iraq
Ireland
Isle of Man
Israel
Italy
Jamaica
Japan
Jersey
Jordan
Kazakhstan
Kenya
Kiribati
Kosovo
Kuwait
Kyrgyzstan
Laos
Latvia
Lebanon
Lesotho
Liberia
Libya
Liechtenstein
Lithuania
Luxembourg
Macau
Macedonia (FYROM)
Madagascar
Malawi
Malaysia
Maldives
Mali
Malta
Marshall Islands
Martinique
Mauritania
Mauritius
Mayotte
Mexico
Micronesia
Moldova
Monaco
Mongolia
Montenegro
Montserrat
Morocco
Mozambique
Myanmar (Burma)
Namibia
Nauru
Nepal
Netherlands
Netherlands Antilles
New Caledonia
New Zealand
Nicaragua
Niger
Nigeria
Niue
Norfolk Island
North Korea
Northern Mariana Islands
Norway
Oman
Pakistan
Palau
Palestine
Panama
Papua New Guinea
Paraguay
Peru
Philippines
Pitcairn Islands
Poland
Portugal
Puerto Rico
Qatar
Réunion
Romania
Russia
Rwanda
Saint Barthélemy
Saint Helena
Saint Kitts and Nevis
Saint Lucia
Saint Martin
Saint Pierre and Miquelon
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
Samoa
San Marino
Sao Tome and Principe
Saudi Arabia
Senegal
Serbia
Seychelles
Sierra Leone
Singapore
Sint Maarten
Slovakia
Slovenia
Solomon Islands
Somalia
South Africa
South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands
South Korea
South Sudan
Spain
Sri Lanka
Sudan
Suriname
Svalbard and Jan Mayen
Swaziland
Sweden
Switzerland
Syria
Taiwan
Tajikistan
Tanzania
Thailand
Togo
Tokelau
Tonga
Trinidad and Tobago
Tunisia
Turkey
Turkmenistan
Turks and Caicos Islands
Tuvalu
U.S. Virgin Islands
Uganda
Ukraine
United Arab Emirates
United States Minor Outlying Islands
Uruguay
Uzbekistan
Vanuatu
Vatican City
Venezuela
Vietnam
Wallis and Futuna
Western Sahara
Yemen
Zambia
Zimbabwe
OPT-IN REQUIRED: I would like to receive promotional emails from Sigma Computing. I understand that I can unsubscribe at any time and that Sigma Computing's use of my email address is governed by its Privacy Policy. By submitting, you consent to allow Sigma Computing to store and process the personal data from this form to fulfill your request.*
Enterprise BI. Spreadsheet UI.
FEATURES
Platform overview
AI / ML
Collaboration
Governance
Python / SQL
Write-back
All features
Product Launch
CAPABILITIES
Spreadsheets
Reports
Dashboards
Data Apps
Embedded Analytics
Self-service
Interactive Demos
BY INDUSTRY
Financial Services
Healthcare
Retail & CPG
BY ROLE
Analyst
Business Leader
Data Engineer
Finance
IT / Data
Marketing
Product
Sales
Supply Chain
INTEGRATIONS
Snowflake
Databricks
AWS
Azure
Google Cloud
CONTACT
Contact us
Request a demo
Get support
RESOURCES
Blog
Documentation
eBooks
Lightboard videos
Learning Center
Resource Center
EVENTS
Live events
On-demand webinars
Snowflake Summit
Databricks Summit
Data Monetization
Community events
Free trial
GET HANDS-ON
Free trial
Live demos
Product Tour
Sigma Library
SUPPORT
Get support
Community
Product FAQs
QuickStarts
Documentation
Bug Bounty
Sigma Status
COMPANY
About us
Newsroom
Security Center
Customers
Why Sigma?
Comparison
Careers
PARTNERS
Program overview
Technology partners
Consulting partners
Partner Integrations
© 2025 Sigma Computing
Privacy Policy
Cookie Policy
Website Terms of Service
Subprocessors
Site Index
Cookies Settings
By clicking “Accept All Cookies”, you agree to the storing of cookies on your device to enhance site navigation, analyze site usage, and assist in our marketing efforts.
Cookies Settings Accept All Cookies