Tracking spend down to the SKU: How OnCorps AI uses Sigma and Databricks to keep costs down
By Brian Cole
SVP DATA AND MACHINE LEARNING, ONCORPS AI
Brian Cole is Senior Vice President Data and Machine Learning at OnCorps AI. Dr. Cole, who holds a PhD in Computer Science and leads OnCorps' efforts in algorithm development and data pipeline management, discusses how OnCorps uses Sigma and Databricks to optimize data handling and cost efficiency within financial services.
How we use data
I’m the head of OnCorps’ Data Team, which is responsible for algorithm development and production pipelines.  We use AI to extract insights from the large amounts of data accumulated by financial services institutions in order to reduce labor and human errors.
We use AI to identify anomalies in mutual fund accounting data over time, allowing us to catch costly errors.  The biggest question that fund administrators have is, “What caused this anomaly?” We are using generative AI to reduce the time to answer that question.  Additionally, we are using AI to perform reconciliations on the shareholder reports that fund administrators are required to release. As these are legally binding documents, the question we answer is “Does this financial report match the actual holdings and operating patterns of this fund?”
Life before Sigma 
We had used QuickSight, but found the feature set wasn’t complete enough for the complex visualizations we need to build for financial services clients.  We then built customized dashboards and embedded visualizations from scratch using Plotly and Dash.  However, building this out required data extraction services and the total cost of ownership was much higher than we had anticipated, including maintenance and infrastructure management.
Sigma has the most familiar and intuitive interface of any currently available solution.
We did trials of Google Looker, Tableau, Quicksight, and PowerBI and they all had drawbacks. We wanted the ability for non-technical individuals to be able to create dashboards and answer questions with data, and Sigma has the most familiar and intuitive interface of any currently available solution.
Life with Sigma 
We set up a Sigma dashboard to perform real-time monitoring of our Databricks spend in order to control costs. This allows Databricks administrators to quickly visualize changes in cost in response to optimizations and cost-cutting measures, as well as to receive real-time alerting in response to sudden and unexpected increases in costs.  Sigma visualizations allow us to dissect the total Databricks spend by SKU and by Databricks workspace, which saves us a lot of time getting to the root cause of sudden movements in spend.
A user can’t tell that a portion of a page is actually a Sigma embed.
The primary usage of Sigma is for us to create customized dashboards for our users to embed in the applications that they subscribe to.  One example is a dashboard containing over-the-counter derivatives for a major financial institution that performs a lot of these trades. These trades are much more complicated and labor-intensive than exchange-traded derivatives, and as a result, they can take longer to execute.  We provide analysis of time-to-completion for both open and completed trades, which is important for our client’s SLAs.  Additionally, we break that down by counterparty and the steps within the confirmation process, allowing our client to plan fine-grained actions to reduce the time to trade confirmation.
Sigma Impact 
We are able to add our own branding to Sigma dashboards and also to embed so seamlessly that the dashboards are perfectly integrated into the page.  A user can’t tell that a portion of a page is actually a Sigma embed.
Sigma has reduced our total cost of ownership of data visualization by 50%.  Additionally, the go-to-market time for a new dashboard has dropped 75%. Our maintenance burden  has dropped due to reduced infrastructure operations—this means fewer bug tickets, reduced complexity of enhancement requests, and shorter time to resolution.  Finally, Sigma’s UI allows non-technical users to create and maintain visualizations, reducing the burden from the data team and freeing us up to work on algorithm development and data engineering.
Sigma’s UI allows non-technical users to create and maintain visualizations, reducing the burden from the data team and freeing us up to work on algorithm development and data engineering.
Our CFO has a focus this year on enhanced analytics. This is a team of Excel wizards that have extremely detailed tasks surrounding payroll, budgeting, and forecasting, and one of their yearly goals is to leverage BI tooling to take the work out of this process. We realized Sigma could be a good fit due to Sigma’s new financial feature suite. This is a work in progress, but my team is in the planning phase with our finance team and I think Sigma could be a great fit. It’s similar to how we use Sigma to forecast and monitor Databricks operations.
‍
ABOUT
ONCORPS AI
OnCorps uses Sigma and Databricks to optimize data handling and cost efficiency within financial services.
More about
OnCorps AI
See
WATCH ON-DEMAND DEMOS
Experience
ATTEND AN EVENT
Try
GET A FREE TRIAL
Explore
INTERACTIVE DEMOS
Connect
JOIN THE COMMUNITY
Meet
SCHEDULE A CALL


Get Sigma in
your inbox
Enterprise BI. Spreadsheet UI.
FEATURES
Platform overview
AI / ML
Collaboration
Governance
Python / SQL
Write-back
All features
Product Launch
CAPABILITIES
Spreadsheets
Reports
Dashboards
Data Apps
Embedded Analytics
Self-service
Interactive Demos
BY INDUSTRY
Financial Services
Healthcare
Retail & CPG
BY ROLE
Analyst
Business Leader
Data Engineer
Finance
IT / Data
Marketing
Product
Sales
Supply Chain
INTEGRATIONS
Snowflake
Databricks
AWS
Azure
Google Cloud
CONTACT
Contact us
Request a demo
Get support
RESOURCES
Blog
Documentation
eBooks
Lightboard videos
Learning Center
Resource Center
EVENTS
Live events
On-demand webinars
Snowflake Summit
Databricks Summit
Data Monetization
Community events
Free trial
GET HANDS-ON
Free trial
Live demos
Product Tour
Sigma Library
SUPPORT
Get support
Community
Product FAQs
QuickStarts
Documentation
Bug Bounty
Sigma Status
COMPANY
About us
Newsroom
Security Center
Customers
Why Sigma?
Comparison
Careers
PARTNERS
Program overview
Technology partners
Consulting partners
Partner Integrations
© 2025 Sigma Computing
Privacy Policy
Cookie Policy
Website Terms of Service
Subprocessors
Site Index
Cookie Preferences