Create workbooks from templates
Suggest Edits
Workbook templates allow you to make templates of workbook structures for quick and consistent reuse. For more information see Create and edit templates and Share templates.
Requirements
The ability to create a new workbook from a template requires the following:
You must be assigned an account type with the Can create, edit, and publish workbooks permission enabled.
You must be the template owner or be granted Can use or Can edit template permission.
Create a workbook from a template
Open the Templates gallery page from the left-side navigation panel on your home page.
Click the template you would like to explore.
The templated workbook opens.
Explore the template by clicking on any of its interactive elements. These include tables, visualizations and controls. None of your changes affect the template itself.
(Optional) To create an editable and publishable workbook from the template, click Save As in the template’s header.
Use your data in a workbook template (swap sources)
Prerequisite: The data you want to swap in must be available in Sigma.
To inject your own data into a workbook template:
Open the Templates gallery page from the left-side navigation panel on your home page.
Click the template you would like to use.
The templated workbook opens.
If the workbook is built on sample data, a popup appears at the top of the page.
Click Swap now.

This opens the Swap Data Sources page.
Sigma attempts to automatically match your data with the template's expected data. 
However, you can override this, or you may need to manually select a source if a cannot be found by Sigma.
[optional] To replace a matched source, click the edit () button next to the source under REPLACE WITH. Then select a new source from the modal.
If the template requires additional sources, check each sources match from the left most panel, ALL SOURCES IN USE.
When ready, click Swap.
Explore the workbook to confirm that your data looks correct.
To create an editable and publishable workbook from the template, click Save As in the template’s header.
Workbooks also support source swapping. To begin swapping your data into a workbook, open the workbook in Edit mode, open its header menu, then click Swap data sources.
RELATED RESOURCES
Get started with workbook templates
Create and edit workbook templates
Share templates with different orgs