Home
Community
QuickStarts
Status
Documentation
API Recipes
API Reference
What's New
Search
START
About Sigma
Start using Sigma
CONNECT
Connect to data sources
Manage connections
ADD DATA
CSV uploads
Input tables
MODEL
Get started with data modeling (Beta)
Data models (Beta)
Model data from database tables
Datasets
Add and manage data
Join data
Transform data
ANALYZE
Workbook basics
Build a workbook
Data elements
Tables
Query
MANAGE WORKBOOKS
Manage a workbook
Workbook templates
Workbook lifecycle
Workbook performance
Workbook security
Manage SQL queries
CHART
Intro to charts
Build a chart
Customize a chart
FILTER
Filter data
Intro to control elements
Work with controls
DESIGN
Design layout
UI elements
Workbook formatting
ADD LOGIC
Intro to actions
Create workbook actions
Configure workbook actions
INTERACT
Interact with workbooks
Interact with charts
Collaborate in workbooks
Search for files in your organization
SHARE
Share a workbook
Share a folder
Share templates
Send or schedule workbook exports
Export data
Manage scheduled exports
About exporting data
CALCULATE
Operators overview
Use AI with formulas (Beta)
Perform AI queries
Functions
Metrics
Custom functions
EMBED
Intro to embedded analytics
Public embedding
Secure embedding
Advanced data security in embeds
Additional embedding configurations
Embed SDK for React
DEVELOP
Sigma API
Plugin development
ADMIN
Administer Sigma
Users and teams
Permissions
Authentication
Third-party integrations
Organization settings
Customize
Localize
Manage assets
Audit and usage
Develop
SUPPORT
Sigma support
Sigma product releases
Supported regions, data platforms, and features
Create reusable custom functions
Suggest Edits
You can define custom functions to represent frequently used complex calculations that combine logic, aggregates, and other type of operations. There are many advantages to adding custom functions to your Sigma practice:
Use custom functions to encode business logic instead of repeating it.
Encapsulate complex calculations that are common business use cases, for easier use.
Expose your proprietary warehouse functions, making them consumable.
Requirements
To create and manage custom functions, you must be assigned the Admin account type.
Users with access to write formulas can use custom functions in the same manner as built-in Sigma functions.
Limitations
You can use custom functions inside workbooks and metrics.
All arguments of the custom function are required; there are no optional arguments.
User-defined functions (UDFs) from your data warehouse only work for that specific warehouse and schema; there is no cross-warehouse support.
Create custom functions
The following steps describe how to create a custom function:
Navigate to Administration.
Select Account on the left navigation tab.
In the Account section, scroll to the bottom of the page.
Under the Custom functions heading, you can see all custom functions that you previously defined on your account.
In the Create custom function section, click Add.
In the Add new custom function page, specify the new function:
Name
Required.
Name your function.
Valid function names must adhere to these rules:
Contain only letters and numbers
Begin with a capital letter
Unique (case-insensitive) compared to all other custom and built-in functions
Maximum 128 characters long
Description
Optional.
Describe what your function does.
If your organization habitually uses multiple data warehouses, and you are using one or more UDFs, specify the warehouse and schema of the UDF. See the SplineModel example.
Arguments
Optional.
Iteratively add arguments to your function by clicking + Add argument for each argument.
To delete an argument, click x (remove/delete) next to its description.
For each argument, specify the following:
Name
Required.
Name of the argument.
Valid argument names must adhere to these rules:
Contain only letters, numbers, spaces, and underscores
Cannot begin with a space
Maximum 128 characters long
The default arguments are arg1, arg 2, and so on. Rename the arguments to accurately represent the input data.
Type
Required.
The data type of the argument.
The default data type is Number. You can switch to Text, Logical, Datetime, Variant, or Geography data type, depending on the input data.
Description
Optional.
Describe the data that the argument represents.
Formula
Required.
Use built-in functions, operations, and the arguments you defined to build the formula for your custom function.
Return type
The data type of the return value.
Sigma populates this field automatically, based on the formula and the arguments.
Include function
in formula bar
suggestions
Optional.
Turn the switch to the on position after you tested and finalized the new custom function.
This makes the new function appear as a suggestion on the formula bar in relevant workbooks.
Note that you can use a hidden custom functions by name, and hiding a function does not break existing formulas and elements that consume this custom function.
Click Save.
After saving the custom function, it appears in the list of custom functions.
Depending on your choice for the Include function in formula bar suggestions switch, this custom function has the status of Visible or Hidden.
After you create a custom function, you can use it in the workbook's formula interface exactly like a built-in function. The only difference is that built-in Sigma functions typically include a usage example.
Custom functions have the Custom label in the formula interface:
Edit custom functions
To modify an existing custom function, follow these steps:
Navigate to the Custom functions page: User > Administration > Account > Custom functions.
For the function you plan to edit, click More.
Select Edit.
In the Update custom function dialog, make the necessary changes and then click Save.
To delete an argument, click x (remove/delete) next to the argument description.
If you change the signature of the function, such as the name, number and type of arguments, or formula, the elements that use the function might break.
The updated custom function appears in the list of custom functions.
Hide custom functions
Hide a custom function to prevent it from appearing as a suggestion in the formula interface. Hiding a function does not remove the function from your Sigma instance or account or break elements that use this function.
Hide a function as a step toward deprecating it, effectively limiting and preventing use of the function in new elements and use cases.
To hide a custom function, follow these steps:
Navigate to the Custom functions page: User > Administration > Account > Custom functions.
For the function you plan to hide, click More.
Select Hide function.
In the list of custom functions, Sigma changes the function status to Hidden.
You can also hide the function when using the Add custom function and Update custom function interfaces.
Delete custom functions
Deleting a custom function removes it from your Sigma instance or account, and breaks the elements that use this function.
To delete a custom function, follow these steps:
Navigate to the Custom functions page: User > Administration > Account > Custom functions.
For the function you plan to delete, click More.
Select Delete.
The function no longer appears in the list of custom functions.
Examples of custom functions
Slice: a custom function for Text
This example demonstrates how to use a custom function Slice to extract a portion of text. It uses the built-in Sigma function Substring.
Name Description
Slice Get a slice of a text string, at the specified start and end points.
Function arguments:
Argument name Data type Description
text Text The text to slice.
start Number The starting index of the slice.
end Number The ending index of the slice.
Define the formula and return type:
Formula Return type
Substring([text], [start], [end] - [start] + 1) Text
SplineModel: wrap complex syntax of custom warehouse functions
When you want to access a UDF from your data warehouse, it's a best practice to use a custom function as a wrapper to ensure that the calling syntax is correct and all necessary definitions migrate into Sigma.
If you do so, identify the warehouse and relevant schema in the description of the function, especially if you use multiple data stores. This serves a reminder for the function users that the function is specific to the connection that references the named UDF.
This example uses the built-in passthrough Sigma function CallVariant to ensure the correct data type from the original warehouse function is retrieved:
Name Description
SplineModel Snowflake: Apply the spline model to the input.
(The description identifies the warehouse where the UDF is defined.)
Function arguments:
Argument name Data type Description
arg1 Number First argument
arg2 Number Second argument
Define the formula and return type:
Formula Return type
CallVariant("PRODUCT.SIGMA.SPLINEMODEL", ArrayAgg([arg1]), ArrayAgg([arg2])) Variant
Resources
Sigma home
Blog
Learn
Product FAQs
© 2025 Sigma Computing