Home
Community
QuickStarts
Status
Documentation
API Recipes
API Reference
What's New
Search
START
About Sigma
Start using Sigma
CONNECT
Connect to data sources
Manage connections
ADD DATA
CSV uploads
Input tables
MODEL
Get started with data modeling (Beta)
Data models (Beta)
Model data from database tables
Datasets
Add and manage data
Join data
Transform data
ANALYZE
Workbook basics
Build a workbook
Data elements
Tables
Query
MANAGE WORKBOOKS
Manage a workbook
Workbook templates
Workbook lifecycle
Workbook performance
Workbook security
Manage SQL queries
CHART
Intro to charts
Build a chart
Customize a chart
FILTER
Filter data
Intro to control elements
Work with controls
DESIGN
Design layout
UI elements
Workbook formatting
ADD LOGIC
Intro to actions
Create workbook actions
Configure workbook actions
INTERACT
Interact with workbooks
Interact with charts
Collaborate in workbooks
Search for files in your organization
SHARE
Share a workbook
Share a folder
Share templates
Send or schedule workbook exports
Export data
Manage scheduled exports
About exporting data
CALCULATE
Operators overview
Use AI with formulas (Beta)
Perform AI queries
Functions
Metrics
Custom functions
EMBED
Intro to embedded analytics
Public embedding
Secure embedding
Advanced data security in embeds
Additional embedding configurations
Embed SDK for React
DEVELOP
Sigma API
Plugin development
ADMIN
Administer Sigma
Users and teams
Permissions
Authentication
Third-party integrations
Organization settings
Customize
Localize
Manage assets
Audit and usage
Develop
SUPPORT
Sigma support
Sigma product releases
Supported regions, data platforms, and features
Export to webhook
Suggest Edits
📘
This feature does not currently support export to authenticated endpoints.
Sigma webhook exports let you send data to your own webhook endpoints, or to other applications such as Marketo, Segment, or Airtable, using a webhook. You can export your workbook data on an as-needed basis or create one or more schedules for recurring exports. Each schedule can support multiple endpoints and send conditions.
Sigma generates exports from the workbook's latest published version. You can also choose to export a tagged workbook version. Draft changes are not exported.
Requirements
The ability to export to webhooks requires the following:
You must be assigned an account type with the Export to webhook permission enabled.
You must be the workbook owner or be granted Can explore or Can edit workbook permission.
📘
If your organization restricts traffic from certain IP addresses, add the Sigma IP addresses to your allowlist. For more details, see Add Sigma IPs to the allowlist.
Supported formats
The following file types are available for all webhook exports:
CSV
JSON
Export limit
Webhooks have an export limit of 1 million rows. See Download, export, and upload limitations.
Send an ad hoc webhook export
From the workbook menu (), select Export.
The Export modal opens.
Select Webhook.
For Endpoint, enter one or more target webhook endpoints.
Separate multiple endpoints with commas.
Endpoint URLs must start with https://.
If the workbook has tagged versions, select which one you want to export elements from.
In the Attachment section, select a workbook element to export.
For the attachment, select an export file format, either CSV or JSON.
Click Export.
📘
The export contains published workbook content only. Draft changes aren't reflected.
Schedule a recurring export
From the workbook menu , select Schedule exports....
If this is the first schedule for the workbook, click Add Schedule, otherwise click + New schedule.
Select Webhook.
For Endpoint, enter one or more target webhook endpoints.
Separate multiple endpoints with commas.
Endpoint URLs must start with https://.
If the workbook has tagged versions, select which one you want to export elements from.
In the Attachment section, select a workbook element to export.
For the attachment, select an export file format, either CSV or JSON.
In the Frequency section, set the delivery schedule:
(Optional) Select the dropdown for Daily and select Weekly, Monthly, or Custom.
For Daily, select Once a day or Multiple times.
For Weekly, select which days of the week to send an email, and choose between Once a day or Multiple times.
For Monthly, select which day of the month to send an email, and the time of day.
For Custom, specify a schedule using cron syntax. See Set up a custom delivery schedule.
If you select Multiple times, specify the frequency. For example, every 2 hours on the :15 of the hour between 9 AM and 6 PM.
📘
If you don't have the option to set a specific frequency, export frequency might be restricted for your organization. For more details, see Restrict export recipients and frequency.
(Optional) Adjust the default schedule time zone using the dropdown menu.
(Optional) Choose how often to send the export: Always or only If a condition is met. See Schedule a conditional export or alert.
(Optional) If you choose to send an export only If a condition is met, you can turn on the switch to stop notifying after a set number of occurrences per day, week, or in total. (This feature is in beta and subject to the Beta features notice).
(Optional) Select the checkbox for Customize control values to filter the exported data according to the value of one or more workbook controls. See Configure additional options for exports.
Click Create.
RELATED RESOURCES
Send and schedule exports from workbooks
Set up a custom delivery schedule
Apply control values to scheduled exports
Resources
Sigma home
Blog
Learn
Product FAQs
© 2025 Sigma Computing