Home
Community
QuickStarts
Status
Documentation
API Recipes
API Reference
What's New
Search
START
About Sigma
Start using Sigma
CONNECT
Connect to data sources
Manage connections
ADD DATA
CSV uploads
Input tables
MODEL
Get started with data modeling (Beta)
Data models (Beta)
Model data from database tables
Datasets
Add and manage data
Join data
Transform data
ANALYZE
Workbook basics
Build a workbook
Data elements
Tables
Query
MANAGE WORKBOOKS
Manage a workbook
Workbook templates
Workbook lifecycle
Workbook performance
Workbook security
Manage SQL queries
CHART
Intro to charts
Build a chart
Customize a chart
FILTER
Filter data
Intro to control elements
Work with controls
DESIGN
Design layout
UI elements
Workbook formatting
ADD LOGIC
Intro to actions
Create workbook actions
Configure workbook actions
INTERACT
Interact with workbooks
Interact with charts
Collaborate in workbooks
Search for files in your organization
SHARE
Share a workbook
Share a folder
Share templates
Send or schedule workbook exports
Export data
Manage scheduled exports
About exporting data
CALCULATE
Operators overview
Use AI with formulas (Beta)
Perform AI queries
Functions
Metrics
Custom functions
EMBED
Intro to embedded analytics
Public embedding
Secure embedding
Advanced data security in embeds
Additional embedding configurations
Embed SDK for React
DEVELOP
Sigma API
Plugin development
ADMIN
Administer Sigma
Users and teams
Permissions
Authentication
Third-party integrations
Organization settings
Customize
Localize
Manage assets
Audit and usage
Develop
SUPPORT
Sigma support
Sigma product releases
Supported regions, data platforms, and features
Basic explore vs. Full explore
Suggest Edits
Account types support two permissions (Basic explore and Full explore) that enable users to be granted Can explore access to individual workbooks. These account type permissions determine how users interact with workbooks, specifically in View and Explore mode.
Basic explore enables users to access View mode with additional interactions and lightweight customization when granted Can explore access to the workbook.
Full explore enables Basic explore capabilities in View mode and the full scope of interactions and customizations in Explore mode.
This document provides comprehensive comparisons of granular user capabilities based on account type permission (View workbooks, Basic explore, or Full explore) and workbook access (Can view or Can explore). For a complete comparison of capabilities in all workbook modes, including Edit mode, see Workbook modes overview.
📘
The comparisons include the View workbook permission to demonstrate the workbook interactions supported when a user is assigned an account type with neither Basic explore nor Full explore permission. For more information about these account type permissions, see License and account type overview.
View mode + Can view
The following table lists the baseline interactions enabled in View mode when a user is granted Can view workbook access.
User capabilities are the same whether a user is assigned an account type with View workbooks, Basic explore, or Full explore permission.
View workbooks Basic explore Full explore
Update control values
Modify existing filters
Sort column data
View column details
Expand/collapse grouped rows
View aggregated underlying data
Refresh data
Create bookmarks
View mode + Can explore
The following table lists additional interactions and lightweight customization enabled in View mode when a user is granted Can explore workbook access. All capabilities detailed in the previous section (View mode + Can view) are also supported.
Only users assigned account types with Basic explore or Full explore permission can be granted Can explore workbook permission. Therefore, users assigned account types limited to View workbooks permission cannot be granted Can explore workbook permission and cannot perform the following interactions.
View workbooks Basic explore Full explore
Create new filters
View and drill into unaggregated
underlying data
Use drill paths ("Drill anywhere")
Format, reorder, rename, hide,
freeze, and delete columns
Enter input table values1
Export to PNG
Copy data point values
Copy/paste elements
1
Requires the input table element's data entry permission to be set to the workbook's published version.
Explore mode + Can explore
The following table lists the remaining interactions and customizations enabled in Explore mode when a user is granted Can explore workbook access. All capabilities detailed in the previous sections (View mode + Can view and View mode + Can explore) are also supported.
Only users assigned account types with Full explore permission can access Explore mode. Therefore, users assigned account types limited to View workbooks or Basic explore permission cannot access Explore mode to perform the following capabilities.
View workbooks Basic explore Full explore
Create, edit, and delete pages
Create, edit, and delete elements
(editing encompasses properties,
format, actions, columns, etc.)
Duplicate and move existing
elements
View and change element data
sources
Add and modify columns
View custom SQL logic
Edit layouts and workbook settings
View lineage
Resources
Sigma home
Blog
Learn
Product FAQs
© 2025 Sigma Computing