Home
Community
QuickStarts
Status
Documentation
API Recipes
API Reference
What's New
Search
START
About Sigma
Start using Sigma
CONNECT
Connect to data sources
Manage connections
ADD DATA
CSV uploads
Input tables
MODEL
Get started with data modeling (Beta)
Data models (Beta)
Model data from database tables
Datasets
Add and manage data
Join data
Transform data
ANALYZE
Workbook basics
Build a workbook
Data elements
Tables
Query
MANAGE WORKBOOKS
Manage a workbook
Workbook templates
Workbook lifecycle
Workbook performance
Workbook security
Manage SQL queries
CHART
Intro to charts
Build a chart
Customize a chart
FILTER
Filter data
Intro to control elements
Work with controls
DESIGN
Design layout
UI elements
Workbook formatting
ADD LOGIC
Intro to actions
Create workbook actions
Configure workbook actions
INTERACT
Interact with workbooks
Interact with charts
Collaborate in workbooks
Search for files in your organization
SHARE
Share a workbook
Share a folder
Share templates
Send or schedule workbook exports
Export data
Manage scheduled exports
About exporting data
CALCULATE
Operators overview
Use AI with formulas (Beta)
Perform AI queries
Functions
Metrics
Custom functions
EMBED
Intro to embedded analytics
Public embedding
Secure embedding
Advanced data security in embeds
Additional embedding configurations
Embed SDK for React
DEVELOP
Sigma API
Plugin development
ADMIN
Administer Sigma
Users and teams
Permissions
Authentication
Third-party integrations
Organization settings
Customize
Localize
Manage assets
Audit and usage
Develop
SUPPORT
Sigma support
Sigma product releases
Supported regions, data platforms, and features
Connect to BigQuery
Suggest Edits
Sigma supports secure connections to BigQuery.
This document explains how to connect your organization to a BigQuery warehouse.
📘
For information about Sigma feature compatibility with BigQuery connections, see Region, warehouse, and feature support.
Requirements
Admin privileges in your Sigma organization; see account types
Permission to create a service account on your Google Cloud Project
We recommend that you avoid granting excessive permissions to the account you use when connecting to your data store; for example, you do not require SYSADMIN-level access
Create a BigQuery Service Account
Before you connect to Sigma, you will need to visit your Google Cloud Platform (GCP) console to create a service account and generate a json private key for your BigQuery instance.
What is a service account, and why do I need one?
A GCP service account is a type of Google account that can securely communicate over Google APIs on your behalf. The service account you create in the steps below will act as a middleman between Sigma and your BigQuery warehouse.
See Google’s service account documentation.
Account Permissions / Roles
When creating your service account, you will need to grant it specific access permissions. These permissions are called Roles.
To run BigQuery with Sigma, please grant your service account the following roles:
"BigQuery Data Viewer"
"BigQuery Job User"
"BigQuery Data Editor" - This role is only required if you intend to enable write access on your connection.
Create a Service Account
We have included instructions below to create your service account. However, please be aware that this guide may not always be up to date with the most recent GCP console changes, as GCP is not managed by Sigma.
For Google’s instructions, visit Create a VM that uses a user-managed service account.
Log into your GCP console.
Open the Navigation menu.
Hover over IAM & Admin and select Service Accounts from the submenu.
Click + CREATE SERVICE ACCOUNT in the service accounts header.
Under Service account details, add an account name, ID, and optional description.
Click CREATE.
Under Service account permissions, add the following roles:
BigQuery Data Viewer
BigQuery Job User
BigQuery Data Editor - This role is only required if you intend to enable write access on your connection.
Click CONTINUE.
[optional] Under Grant users access.... you may choose to grant other users access to your new service account.
This step is not necessary for connecting to Sigma.
Click + CREATE KEY to create a json private key.
A file will be downloaded to your computer, which you will later use when connecting to Sigma (Step 7).
Create a Connection in Sigma
If you have not already created a BigQuery Service Account, please do so now.
In Sigma, open Administration > Connections.
Click Create Connection.
Name your connection.
Select BigQuery under warehouse type.
You will then be prompted to specify your Connection Credentials.
Under Billing project ID, enter your GCP ‘Project ID’. This can be found under ‘Project Info’ on your GCP console dashboard. Find your project id.
Note: Grant the service account the “BigQuery Data Viewer“ role for the project's datasets. See BigQuery documentation on Control access to resources with IAM: Grant access to a resource.
Under Service account, paste the json key you created when setting up your service account. The key is located in the .json file that was downloaded to your computer when you created your service account.
[Optional] Under Additional project IDs, you can add additional BigQuery project IDs to the same connection. Separate multiple IDs with a comma.
Example: project-id-001, project-id-002
Note: Grant the service account the “BigQuery Data Viewer“ role for each project's datasets. See BigQuery documentation on Control access to resources with IAM: Grant access to a resource.
Under Connection Features, specify the following
Connection timeout
The time before timeout (or cancellation), in seconds, that Sigma waits for the query to return results.
Default is 120, or 2 minutes.
Maximum is 600, or 10 minutes.
Use friendly names
This switch makes column names from the data source more readable.
For example, a database column ORDER_NUMBER appears as Order Number.
On by default.
Enable write access*.
Note: The "BigQuery Data Editor" role is required for write access.
Write access is required for CSV Upload, Materialization, and Dataset Warehouse Views.
After completing the form, click Create.
Confirm your Connection
After you have created your connection, you can confirm that your data is accessible by visiting the Connections section of Sigma’s left hand navigation panel.
If you are still in the Admin Portal, click the back button in the top left corner of your screen to close the Admin Portal and navigate back to the home page.
Select your new warehouse connection from the left hand navigation panel.
From here, you can navigate through your connection’s schemas and tables, confirming the connection was successful.
RELATED RESOURCES
Set up write access
Data permissions
Google Cloud - Service Accounts
Resources
Sigma home
Blog
Learn
Product FAQs
© 2025 Sigma Computing