Home
Community
QuickStarts
Status
Documentation
API Recipes
API Reference
What's New
Search
START
About Sigma
Start using Sigma
CONNECT
Connect to data sources
Manage connections
ADD DATA
CSV uploads
Input tables
MODEL
Get started with data modeling (Beta)
Data models (Beta)
Model data from database tables
Datasets
Add and manage data
Join data
Transform data
ANALYZE
Workbook basics
Build a workbook
Data elements
Tables
Query
MANAGE WORKBOOKS
Manage a workbook
Workbook templates
Workbook lifecycle
Workbook performance
Workbook security
Manage SQL queries
CHART
Intro to charts
Build a chart
Customize a chart
FILTER
Filter data
Intro to control elements
Work with controls
DESIGN
Design layout
UI elements
Workbook formatting
ADD LOGIC
Intro to actions
Create workbook actions
Configure workbook actions
INTERACT
Interact with workbooks
Interact with charts
Collaborate in workbooks
Search for files in your organization
SHARE
Share a workbook
Share a folder
Share templates
Send or schedule workbook exports
Export data
Manage scheduled exports
About exporting data
CALCULATE
Operators overview
Use AI with formulas (Beta)
Perform AI queries
Functions
Metrics
Custom functions
EMBED
Intro to embedded analytics
Public embedding
Secure embedding
Advanced data security in embeds
Additional embedding configurations
Embed SDK for React
DEVELOP
Sigma API
Plugin development
ADMIN
Administer Sigma
Users and teams
Permissions
Authentication
Third-party integrations
Organization settings
Customize
Localize
Manage assets
Audit and usage
Develop
SUPPORT
Sigma support
Sigma product releases
Supported regions, data platforms, and features
Customize element background and styles (Beta)
Suggest Edits
🚩
This documentation describes a public beta feature and is under construction. This documentation should not be considered part of our published documentation until this notice, and the corresponding Beta flag on the feature in the Sigma service, are removed. As with any beta feature, the feature discussed below is subject to quick, iterative changes. The latest experience in the Sigma service might differ from the contents of this document.
Beta features are subject to the Beta features disclaimer.
You can customize the styles of all data elements (visualizations, tables, and pivot tables), input tables, and text elements to add a background color, border, padding, and change the corner shapes.
Styles can be set as part of the workbook theme, but you can customize individual elements to improve accessibility, create a visual hierarchy, and ensure alignment with company branding.
User requirements
The ability to customize the style of workbook elements requires the following:
You must be assigned an account type with the Explore workbook and/or Create, edit, and publish workbooks permission enabled.
You must be the workbook owner or be granted Can explore or Can edit workbook permission.
Add padding to an element
You can add padding to most elements. You cannot add padding to map visualizations or image elements.
Open a workbook in Explore or Edit mode and select the element you want to modify.
Select Element format in the side navigation, then click the Element style header to expand the section.
Select the Padding checkbox to add padding around the element. To remove padding, deselect the checkbox.
The element updates to reflect the style change.
Add or change a custom background color
You can add a background color to most elements. You cannot add a background color to map visualizations or image elements.
Open a workbook in Explore or Edit mode and select the element you want to modify.
Select Element format in the side navigation, then click the Element style header to expand the section.
Click the Background color dropdown, then enter a hex value or select an option from the color palette or picker.
The element updates to use the custom background color.
Remove a custom background color
Open a workbook in Explore or Edit mode and select the element you want to modify.
Select Element format in the side navigation, then click the Element style header to expand the section.
Click the Background color dropdown, then select None.
The element updates to use a transparent background color.
Add a border to an element
You can add a border to most elements. You can always add a border to map visualizations and image elements, but other elements require padding to add a border. See Add padding to an element .
Open a workbook in Explore or Edit mode and select the element you want to modify.
Select Element format in the side navigation, then click the Element style header to expand the section.
For Border, leave the default of None, or open the drop-down menu to select a border that is 1, 2, or 3 pixels wide. When you select a border, you can also choose a color. To remove the border, select the drop-down menu and choose None.
The element updates to reflect the style change.
Change the corner shape of an element
You can change the corner shape of any element.
Open a workbook in Explore or Edit mode and select the element you want to modify.
Select Element format in the side navigation, then click the Element style header to expand the section.
For Corner, select whether to have square, round, or pill shaped corners for your element.
The element updates to reflect the style change.
Change the alignment of a text element
Open a workbook in Explore or Edit mode and select the element you want to modify.
Select Element format in the side navigation, then click the Element style header to expand the section.
For Alignment, select whether to top align , center align , or bottom align the text in the element.
The element updates to reflect the style change.
Resources
Sigma home
Blog
Learn
Product FAQs
© 2025 Sigma Computing