Home
Community
QuickStarts
Status
Documentation
API Recipes
API Reference
What's New
Search
START
About Sigma
Start using Sigma
CONNECT
Connect to data sources
Manage connections
ADD DATA
CSV uploads
Input tables
MODEL
Get started with data modeling (Beta)
Data models (Beta)
Model data from database tables
Datasets
Add and manage data
Join data
Transform data
ANALYZE
Workbook basics
Build a workbook
Data elements
Tables
Query
MANAGE WORKBOOKS
Manage a workbook
Workbook templates
Workbook lifecycle
Workbook performance
Workbook security
Manage SQL queries
CHART
Intro to charts
Build a chart
Customize a chart
FILTER
Filter data
Intro to control elements
Work with controls
DESIGN
Design layout
UI elements
Workbook formatting
ADD LOGIC
Intro to actions
Create workbook actions
Configure workbook actions
INTERACT
Interact with workbooks
Interact with charts
Collaborate in workbooks
Search for files in your organization
SHARE
Share a workbook
Share a folder
Share templates
Send or schedule workbook exports
Export data
Manage scheduled exports
About exporting data
CALCULATE
Operators overview
Use AI with formulas (Beta)
Perform AI queries
Functions
Metrics
Custom functions
EMBED
Intro to embedded analytics
Public embedding
Secure embedding
Advanced data security in embeds
Additional embedding configurations
Embed SDK for React
DEVELOP
Sigma API
Plugin development
ADMIN
Administer Sigma
Users and teams
Permissions
Authentication
Third-party integrations
Organization settings
Customize
Localize
Manage assets
Audit and usage
Develop
SUPPORT
Sigma support
Sigma product releases
Supported regions, data platforms, and features
Manage workbook page visibility
Suggest Edits
By default, workbook pages are visible to all users with permission to view, explore, or edit the workbook. You can change the visibility of individual pages to restrict viewing specific workbook content.
This document describes Sigma’s page visibility options and explains how to customize the visibility of a particular page.
User requirements
The ability to manage workbook page visibility requires the following:
You must be assigned an account type with the Create, edit, and publish workbooks permission enabled.
You must be the workbook owner or be granted Can edit workbook permission.
Understanding page visibility
Page visibility is not a security feature. If you need to restrict access to data, see Dataset Row-Level Security.
📘
At least one page in a workbook must not have any page visibility restrictions applied.
🚧
Page visibility settings apply in View and Explore mode only. The workbook owner and any user granted Can edit permission for the particular workbook can access all pages in Edit mode, regardless of page visibility settings.
🚧
When a user with Save As permissions saves a copy of a workbook, all pages are visible in the copy, regardless of page visibility settings in the original workbook.
Page visibility icons
Page tabs display icons to indicate the current page visibility setting:
no icon Indicates the page is visible to all users.
Indicates the page is visible to select users or teams.
Indicates the page is hidden from all users.
Page visibility in workbook versions and secure embeds
Tagged versions
Tagged workbook versions inherit the page visibility settings saved to the workbook when the tag is applied. Therefore, a page can be accessible to a user in one version and hidden from the same user in another.
Secure embeds
Page visibility in secure embeds is determined by team settings. A page is only visible to an embed user when shown to the user’s assigned team (via Show page to all users or Only show to select users or teams).
🚧
When a secure embed user saves a copy of an embedded workbook, all pages are visible in the copy, regardless of page visibility settings in the original workbook.
Hide or unhide a page
Use the Hide page and Unhide page options to quickly update the page visibility for all users.
Open a workbook in Edit mode.
Locate the tab for the page you want to customize.
Click the caret () in the tab to open the page menu, then select the available option:
Hide page
Hides page from all users accessing the workbook in View or Explore mode.
Available when the page is currently visible to all users.
Unhide page
Shows page to all users accessing the workbook in any mode.
Available when the page is currently hidden from all or select users and teams.
Customize page visibility
Use the Customize page visibility option to update the page visibility for all users or specific users and teams.
Open a workbook in Edit mode.
Locate the tab for the page you want to customize.
Click the caret () in the tab to open the page menu, then select Customize page visibility.
In the Customize Page Visibility modal, configure the page visibility:
Click the Page visibility setting field and select an option from the dropdown:
Hide page from all users Hides page from all users accessing the workbook in View or Explore mode.
Show page to all users
(default) Shows page to all users accessing the workbook in any mode.
Only show to select users or teams Only shows page to selected users and teams. Hides page from remaining users accessing the workbook in View or Explore mode.
If you selected Only show to select users or teams in step 4a, use the Select users field to search for and select applicable users and teams.
Click Save to apply the page visibility change.
Resources
Sigma home
Blog
Learn
Product FAQs
© 2025 Sigma Computing