Home
Community
QuickStarts
Status
Documentation
API Recipes
API Reference
What's New
Search
START
About Sigma
Start using Sigma
CONNECT
Connect to data sources
Manage connections
ADD DATA
CSV uploads
Input tables
MODEL
Get started with data modeling (Beta)
Data models (Beta)
Model data from database tables
Datasets
Add and manage data
Join data
Transform data
ANALYZE
Workbook basics
Build a workbook
Data elements
Tables
Query
MANAGE WORKBOOKS
Manage a workbook
Workbook templates
Workbook lifecycle
Workbook performance
Workbook security
Manage SQL queries
CHART
Intro to charts
Build a chart
Customize a chart
FILTER
Filter data
Intro to control elements
Work with controls
DESIGN
Design layout
UI elements
Workbook formatting
ADD LOGIC
Intro to actions
Create workbook actions
Configure workbook actions
INTERACT
Interact with workbooks
Interact with charts
Collaborate in workbooks
Search for files in your organization
SHARE
Share a workbook
Share a folder
Share templates
Send or schedule workbook exports
Export data
Manage scheduled exports
About exporting data
CALCULATE
Operators overview
Use AI with formulas (Beta)
Perform AI queries
Functions
Metrics
Custom functions
EMBED
Intro to embedded analytics
Public embedding
Secure embedding
Advanced data security in embeds
Additional embedding configurations
Embed SDK for React
DEVELOP
Sigma API
Plugin development
ADMIN
Administer Sigma
Users and teams
Permissions
Authentication
Third-party integrations
Organization settings
Customize
Localize
Manage assets
Audit and usage
Develop
SUPPORT
Sigma support
Sigma product releases
Supported regions, data platforms, and features
Invite new organization members
Suggest Edits
You can invite new members to your organization from the Administration portal. This document explains how to invite new members and resend or delete pending invitations.
System and user requirements
The ability to invite new password-authenticated members to your Sigma organization requires the following:
You must be assigned the Admin account type.
🚧
If your organization uses only SAML or OAuth to authenticate members, you must first assign new members in the IdP or authorization server. If a member receives an invite before this step is complete, they see an IdP error and will be unable to log in to Sigma.
Invite a new member
To invite a new user to your Sigma organization:
Go to Administration > People:
In the Sigma header, click your user avatar to open the user menu.
Select Administration to open the Administration portal.
In the side panel, select People.
In the People page, click Invite people.
In the Invite people to use Sigma modal, set up and send the invitation:
In the Enter email addresses... field, enter the email address of one or more members to invite.
📘
Sigma recommends inviting no more than 1,000 members at a time.
[optional] In the Guest users section, select the Invite as guest users checkbox to limit user interactions to content explicitly shared with them or their assigned teams.
[optional] In the Select account type dropdown, select an account type to assign the new members. You can change the account type assigned by default. See Manage default invitation account type.
[optional] In the Add a custom message field, enter a message to include in the invitation email. You can set up a default email message. See Customize welcome and invite emails to set up a default email message.
[optional] In the Assign team(s) section, select the teams to assign the new members.
Click Invite to send an invitation to the email addresses provided.
Sigma sends an invitation to the provided email addresses. You can track invite details in the People > Pending invitations tab until members set up their accounts.
Resend a pending invitation
To resend a pending invitation to a user:
Go to Administration > People:
In the Sigma header, click your user avatar to open the user menu.
Select Administration to open the Administration portal.
In the side panel, select People.
In the People page, select the Pending invitations tab.
Resend an invitation to one or more members:
To resend an invitation to an individual member, locate their email address, then click More and select Resend invite.
To resend invitations to multiple members, select the checkbox next to each applicable email address, then click Resend invites.
When the invite is successfully sent, Sigma displays an "Invites re-sent" confirmation message at the bottom of the page.
Revoke a pending invitation
Go to Administration > People:
In the Sigma header, click your user avatar to open the user menu.
Select Administration to open the Administration portal.
In the side panel, select People.
In the People page, select the Pending invitations tab.
Revoke an invitation sent to one or more members:
To revoke an invitation sent to an individual member, locate their email address, then click More and select Revoke invite.
To revoke invitations sent to multiple members, select the checkbox next to each applicable email address, then click Revoke invites.
Sigma removes the revoked invitations from the list, and the Set up your account link in any previously sent emails are invalidated.
RELATED RESOURCES
User account types
Manage Authentication
Resources
Sigma home
Blog
Learn
Product FAQs
© 2025 Sigma Computing