Home
Community
QuickStarts
Status
Documentation
API Recipes
API Reference
What's New
Search
START
About Sigma
Start using Sigma
CONNECT
Connect to data sources
Manage connections
ADD DATA
CSV uploads
Input tables
MODEL
Get started with data modeling (Beta)
Data models (Beta)
Model data from database tables
Datasets
Add and manage data
Join data
Transform data
ANALYZE
Workbook basics
Build a workbook
Data elements
Tables
Query
MANAGE WORKBOOKS
Manage a workbook
Workbook templates
Workbook lifecycle
Workbook performance
Workbook security
Manage SQL queries
CHART
Intro to charts
Build a chart
Customize a chart
FILTER
Filter data
Intro to control elements
Work with controls
DESIGN
Design layout
UI elements
Workbook formatting
ADD LOGIC
Intro to actions
Create workbook actions
Configure workbook actions
INTERACT
Interact with workbooks
Interact with charts
Collaborate in workbooks
Search for files in your organization
SHARE
Share a workbook
Share a folder
Share templates
Send or schedule workbook exports
Export data
Manage scheduled exports
About exporting data
CALCULATE
Operators overview
Use AI with formulas (Beta)
Perform AI queries
Functions
Metrics
Custom functions
EMBED
Intro to embedded analytics
Public embedding
Secure embedding
Advanced data security in embeds
Additional embedding configurations
Embed SDK for React
DEVELOP
Sigma API
Plugin development
ADMIN
Administer Sigma
Users and teams
Permissions
Authentication
Third-party integrations
Organization settings
Customize
Localize
Manage assets
Audit and usage
Develop
SUPPORT
Sigma support
Sigma product releases
Supported regions, data platforms, and features
Create and manage workbook themes
Suggest Edits
Create and manage reusable workbook themes in the Administration portal. Customize fonts, colors, layout style, and table style, then assign your organization's default theme.
User requirements
To create manage workbook themes, you must be assigned an account type with the Manage all workbook themes and fonts or Manage branding settings permission enabled.
Theme settings overview
Customize any of the following theme settings to meet branding and aesthetic requirements.
Color
The Color settings control text, button, background, element, and visualization colors in a workbook.
Setting Description
Appearance Sets light or dark theme for a workbook.
Theme colors > Preset Sets a predefined color theme for workbook text, buttons, background, and visualizations.
Theme colors > Text Sets the color of workbook text for your theme.
Theme colors > Highlight Sets the color of buttons, link text, and selection indicators in your theme.
Theme colors > Surface Sets the color for element backgrounds, borders, and icons in your theme.
Override colors > Canvas Sets a custom color for the workbook canvas, different from the canvas color for the theme. Click x to clear.
Override colors > Element Sets a custom color for workbook elements. Click x to clear.
Visualization colors Applies a predefined palette or custom colors to use for visualizations in the theme. You can specify hex codes for the custom color palette.
Invert visualization tooltips Inverts the theme's text and background colors in tooltips.
When you specify a color, you can choose a color from a predefined palette, specify a hex code, pick a color from a window or document open on your computer using an eyedropper, or choose a color from a gradient.
Font
The Font settings control fonts throughout the workbook.
Setting Description
Text font Sets the font for non-data workbook text, like element titles, element descriptions, and table headers. The default is Source Sans Pro.
Data font Sets the font for workbook data. The default is Roboto.
Title font Sets the font size and color of element titles.
Layout style
The Layout style settings control the layout of workbook pages and elements.
Setting Description
Page width Sets the width of all pages in a workbook. The default is Full. Choose Custom to set a maximum width for workbook pages.
Spacing Sets the size of spacing between elements.
Corner Sets the shape of element corners. Choose from a square, rounded, or pill-shaped corner. The default is round.
Data element style > Padding Sets padding for a data element. Deselect the checkbox to remove padding around a data or control element.
Data element style > Background Sets a custom background color for a data or control element. Set to Auto to match the element background for the theme.
Table style
The Table style settings control the format and display of tables, pivot tables, and input tables. For more details about table style options, see Customize table style.
Setting Description
Table style presets Applies a preset to configure all table style options.
Cell spacing Sets the padding around text within table cells.
Grid lines Determines how cell borders are displayed.
Show banding Displays a background color to alternating data rows.
Header Formats table headers.
Subheader Formats subheaders (applicable to pivot tables only).
Cell Formats data cells.
Create a theme
Create a workbook theme that can be applied by users across your entire organization:
Go to Administration > Account > Branding Settings:
In the Sigma header, click your user avatar to open the user menu.
Select Administration to open the Administration portal.
In the side panel, select Account, then select the Branding Settings tab.
In the Workbook Themes section, click Add. 
In the Save as an organization theme modal, configure the new theme:
In the Theme name field, enter a unique name to identify the theme.
To apply the theme to all workbooks by default, select the Set as organization default checkbox.
Customize the theme settings.
Click Save to submit the theme.
Edit an existing custom theme
Edit an existing theme at any time to update all workbooks using it.
Go to Administration > Account > Brand Settings:
In the Sigma header, click your user avatar to open the user menu.
Select Administration to open the Administration portal.
In the side panel, select Account, then open the Brand Settings tab.
In the Workbook Themes section, locate the name of the theme you want to edit, then click More and select Edit.
In the Edit organization theme modal, edit the theme settings as needed, then click Save.
Sigma immediately reflects the changes in all workbooks using the theme.
📘
The Save as setting defaults to the Update existing option, which overwrites the existing configurations and updates all workbooks using the theme. To save the changes as a new custom theme, select New.
Change the default theme
The Default marker in the list of custom themes indicates your organization's default. If no default marker is displayed, your organization's default is Sigma's built-in Light theme.
Go to Administration > Account > Brand Settings:
In the Sigma header, click your user avatar to open the user menu.
Select Administration to open the Administration portal.
In the side panel, select Account, then open the Brand Settings tab.
In the Workbook Themes section, locate the name of the theme you want to update, then click More and select an option in the dropdown:
To assign the theme as your organization's default, select Set as default.
To unassign the theme as your organization's default, select Remove as default.
Sigma applies the default theme to all new workbooks and any existing workbooks in which the theme has remained unchanged since creation.
Delete a custom theme
Go to Administration > Account > Brand Settings:
In the Sigma header, click your user avatar to open the user menu.
Select Administration to open the Administration portal.
In the side panel, select Account, then open the Brand Settings tab.
In the Workbook Themes section, locate the name of the theme you want to delete, then click More and select Delete in the dropdown.
In the Delete Workbook Theme modal, click Delete to proceed.
Sigma permanently deletes the theme from your organization and reverts all workbooks using it to the default theme.
RELATED RESOURCES
Upload custom fonts
Format and customize a table
Resources
Sigma home
Blog
Learn
Product FAQs
© 2025 Sigma Computing