Pie and donut charts
Suggest Edits
Pie and donut charts are a good way to visualize data as a percentage of a total.
Requirements
To create a data element, you must have Can Edit access to the individual workbook and be in Edit mode.
Many exploratory actions are also supported in Explore mode; see Workbook modes.
Plot options
You can create pie and donut charts charts from the PAGE ELEMENTS section of your workbook's editor panel, or directly from an existing data element.
Required fields
COLOR (1 column)
VALUE (1+ columns)
Columns added to the VALUE field are aggregated by default. Aggregation type (e.g. Sum vs Count) is dependent on the original column’s value type (e.g. text, number, date, etc).
Example: A numeric column [Sales Amount] will create a new calculated column [Sum of Sales Amount].
Marks
TOOLTIP: choose columns to show when hovering over points in the chart
TRELLIS: select columns to serve as Trellis Rows or Columns, splitting the chart into separate charts
Donut hole value
🚩
This documentation describes a public beta feature and is under construction. This documentation should not be considered part of our published documentation until this notice, and the corresponding Beta flag on the feature in the Sigma service, are removed. As with any beta feature, the feature discussed below is subject to quick, iterative changes. The latest experience in the Sigma service might differ from the contents of this document.
Beta features are subject to the Beta features disclaimer.
If you're creating a donut chart, you can optionally add a KPI to the hole of the donut.
Select the element.
The editor panel opens to the Element properties section.
For Donut hole value, select the + to add a calculation.
Add a new column, select the row count, or choose a column to aggregate and display in the donut hole.
The aggregate value appears with the column name as a default label. You can format the value using the format options.
Format options
To start editing the format options for a chart:
Before you start: This action uses the editor panel. If you have not done so already, open the editor panel from either Explore or Edit mode.
In the editor panel, select Element format.
Select a format option to view and edit its settings.
The following format categories are available for pie and donut charts:
BACKGROUND
TITLE
LEGEND
DATA LABELS
DONUT HOLE (only for donut charts)
RELATED RESOURCES
Intro to charts
Create a data element