Home
Community
QuickStarts
Status
Documentation
API Recipes
API Reference
What's New
Search
START
About Sigma
Start using Sigma
CONNECT
Connect to data sources
Manage connections
ADD DATA
CSV uploads
Input tables
MODEL
Get started with data modeling (Beta)
Data models (Beta)
Model data from database tables
Datasets
Add and manage data
Join data
Transform data
ANALYZE
Workbook basics
Build a workbook
Data elements
Tables
Query
MANAGE WORKBOOKS
Manage a workbook
Workbook templates
Workbook lifecycle
Workbook performance
Workbook security
Manage SQL queries
CHART
Intro to charts
Build a chart
Customize a chart
FILTER
Filter data
Intro to control elements
Work with controls
DESIGN
Design layout
UI elements
Workbook formatting
ADD LOGIC
Intro to actions
Create workbook actions
Configure workbook actions
INTERACT
Interact with workbooks
Interact with charts
Collaborate in workbooks
Search for files in your organization
SHARE
Share a workbook
Share a folder
Share templates
Send or schedule workbook exports
Export data
Manage scheduled exports
About exporting data
CALCULATE
Operators overview
Use AI with formulas (Beta)
Perform AI queries
Functions
Metrics
Custom functions
EMBED
Intro to embedded analytics
Public embedding
Secure embedding
Advanced data security in embeds
Additional embedding configurations
Embed SDK for React
DEVELOP
Sigma API
Plugin development
ADMIN
Administer Sigma
Users and teams
Permissions
Authentication
Third-party integrations
Organization settings
Customize
Localize
Manage assets
Audit and usage
Develop
SUPPORT
Sigma support
Sigma product releases
Supported regions, data platforms, and features
Change the account time zone
Suggest Edits
Sigma displays all data in UTC. You can change this, if needed, to display all time-based data values in your organization's preferred time zone.
If you have Admin permissions, you can specify your organization’s time zone by going to Administration > Account > General Settings > Time.
Requirements
Only organization Admins can define the account time zone for their organization.
Select a time zone
Go to the Administration > Account > General Settings tab.
Find the Time section and click Edit.
In the Account Timezone dropdown, select your time zone from the menu.
📘
If your time zone is not listed, contact your Account Manager or Support.
Click Save.
What to expect if you change the time zone
Review this list carefully, especially if you are switching from the UTC time zone. After you change the time zone, you can expect the following:
Existing absolute date filters are not affected, but start showing the date range in the new time zone. For example, after switching from UTC to Americas/Los_Angeles, an absolute period originally defined as starting at 1/1/2021 0:00:00 is displayed as starting at 12/31/2020 15:00:00.
Existing relative date filters defined in days or less-granular units reflect the new time zone. The values for the date filters are shown the same way (e.g. 30 days ago), but the meaning changes (e.g. from midnight UTC 30 days ago to midnight Pacific Time 30 days ago).
Date values passed in to Workbook control values via the URL are parsed according to your account time zone. You can override this default behavior so that Sigma parses the date values as being in the UTC +0 time zone.
Materialized datasets do not update to the new time zone until refreshed. If you use materialized datasets, changing your account time zone might lead to temporary inconsistencies until all materializations are refreshed.
Data stored in time zone aware columns can be interpreted differently. For example, if you insert “1/1/2021” into the TIMESTAMP_TZ column in Snowflake using the UTC session time zone:
If your organization time zone is set to UTC, Sigma displays it as 1/1/2021 00:00:00.
If your time zone is Americas/Los_Angeles, the same timestamp displays as 12/31/2020 15:00:00.
Due to this potential inconsistency, avoid using time zone aware columns for storing date values.
🚧
CSVs uploaded to Sigma use a time zone aware column to store time and date values. If you have previously uploaded a CSV file with a date column, upload it again after changing your organization's time zone to prevent dates from being incorrectly interpreted in the new time zone.
If a timestamp source does not include information about the time zone, Sigma automatically applies your account time zone, not UTC.
RELATED RESOURCES
CurrentTimezone
ConvertTimezone
Account Time Zone
Resources
Sigma home
Blog
Learn
Product FAQs
© 2025 Sigma Computing