Home
Community
QuickStarts
Status
Documentation
API Recipes
API Reference
What's New
Search
START
About Sigma
Start using Sigma
CONNECT
Connect to data sources
Manage connections
ADD DATA
CSV uploads
Input tables
MODEL
Get started with data modeling (Beta)
Data models (Beta)
Model data from database tables
Datasets
Add and manage data
Join data
Transform data
ANALYZE
Workbook basics
Build a workbook
Data elements
Tables
Query
MANAGE WORKBOOKS
Manage a workbook
Workbook templates
Workbook lifecycle
Workbook performance
Workbook security
Manage SQL queries
CHART
Intro to charts
Build a chart
Customize a chart
FILTER
Filter data
Intro to control elements
Work with controls
DESIGN
Design layout
UI elements
Workbook formatting
ADD LOGIC
Intro to actions
Create workbook actions
Configure workbook actions
INTERACT
Interact with workbooks
Interact with charts
Collaborate in workbooks
Search for files in your organization
SHARE
Share a workbook
Share a folder
Share templates
Send or schedule workbook exports
Export data
Manage scheduled exports
About exporting data
CALCULATE
Operators overview
Use AI with formulas (Beta)
Perform AI queries
Functions
Metrics
Custom functions
EMBED
Intro to embedded analytics
Public embedding
Secure embedding
Advanced data security in embeds
Additional embedding configurations
Embed SDK for React
DEVELOP
Sigma API
Plugin development
ADMIN
Administer Sigma
Users and teams
Permissions
Authentication
Third-party integrations
Organization settings
Customize
Localize
Manage assets
Audit and usage
Develop
SUPPORT
Sigma support
Sigma product releases
Supported regions, data platforms, and features
Add hyperlinks and images to columns
Suggest Edits
If your table or pivot table contains URLs, you can use those URLs to hyperlink data in another table column or display a linked image. Add hyperlinks to any table or pivot table column using the column menu.
Requirements
You must have Can Explore or Can Edit access to the individual workbook.
Add a hyperlink to a column
You can hyperlink data in a column by referencing a URL in another column or constructing a URL with a formula. To hyperlink data, your workbook must be in Explore or Edit mode.
Add a hyperlink with a formula
You can construct a URL or link with data from one or more columns, then convert that text into a clickable hyperlink:
For example, construct a URL for a store location based on the store ID, then use that constructed URL as the hyperlink for the Store Name column.
Select a table or pivot table element.
Hover over the column, and click the caret () to open the column menu.
In the column menu, select Transform > Set link....
The Set Link for Column modal opens.
For Link source, select Custom formula.
For Create URL with formula, define a formula using the Concat function.
For example, structure a target URL with a string and a column:
Concat("https://www.example.com/?location-id=", [Store Id])
Press Enter or Return, or click the checkmark to apply the formula. Preview the output in the URL Column.
Click Set Link.
Add a hyperlink from an existing URL column
If your table or pivot table contains a column with URLs, you can use that column as a source to add hyperlinks to the values of another column. The URL column can contain the text of a URL, which is automatically hyperlinked, or a formula that builds a URL.
For example, to hyperlink the data in a Page Title column with the URL from a Page Link column, do the following:
Hover over the column, and click the caret () to open the column menu. For example, open the column menu for the Page Title column.
In the column menu, select Transform > Set link....
The Set Link for Column modal opens.
For Link source, select Another column.
For Select column, select the column that contains the URL. For example, select the Page Link column.
Preview the output in the URL Column.
Click Set Link.
Remove a hyperlink from a column
To remove a hyperlink from a column (unlink a column), do the following:
For the column with hyperlinked data, click the caret () to open the column menu.
In the column menu, select Transform > Set link....
Click Remove to remove the link.
Create a column with URLs
To create a column with URLs, where full URLs are displayed in the column, do the following:
📘
To display text with a clickable hyperlink, see Add a hyperlink to a column.
Select or create a column to add a URL to.
Using the formula bar and the Concat function, write a formula to construct URLs.
For example:
Concat("https://www.example.com/?location-id=", [Store Id])
Or as an example to create image URLs:
Concat("https://example.com/image/", [Product Id])
Save your formula by pressing Enter or Return on your keyboard, or clicking the checkmark next to the formula bar.
If you constructed URLs to images, you can set the images to display in your table. See Display linked images in a table column.
Display linked images in a table or pivot table
If your table or pivot table has a column that contains links to images, such as thumbnail images of retail products, you can transform the column to display the image links as images. You can display images in pivot table row, column, or values columns.
Prerequisites:
You must have a column in your data with links to the images.
This action is only available in edit mode. To begin editing, click Edit in the top right corner of the page.
To display images from links in a data column:
Hover over the column, and click the caret () to open the column menu.
Select Transform > Set image....
In the Set image options modal, turn on the Display as image toggle.
Specify the image sizing, height, width, and whether to preserve the aspect ratio of the image.
Select Save.
Images appear in the table cells.
Resources
Sigma home
Blog
Learn
Product FAQs
© 2025 Sigma Computing