Home
Community
QuickStarts
Status
Documentation
API Recipes
API Reference
What's New
Search
START
About Sigma
Start using Sigma
CONNECT
Connect to data sources
Manage connections
ADD DATA
CSV uploads
Input tables
MODEL
Get started with data modeling (Beta)
Data models (Beta)
Model data from database tables
Datasets
Add and manage data
Join data
Transform data
ANALYZE
Workbook basics
Build a workbook
Data elements
Tables
Query
MANAGE WORKBOOKS
Manage a workbook
Workbook templates
Workbook lifecycle
Workbook performance
Workbook security
Manage SQL queries
CHART
Intro to charts
Build a chart
Customize a chart
FILTER
Filter data
Intro to control elements
Work with controls
DESIGN
Design layout
UI elements
Workbook formatting
ADD LOGIC
Intro to actions
Create workbook actions
Configure workbook actions
INTERACT
Interact with workbooks
Interact with charts
Collaborate in workbooks
Search for files in your organization
SHARE
Share a workbook
Share a folder
Share templates
Send or schedule workbook exports
Export data
Manage scheduled exports
About exporting data
CALCULATE
Operators overview
Use AI with formulas (Beta)
Perform AI queries
Functions
Metrics
Custom functions
EMBED
Intro to embedded analytics
Public embedding
Secure embedding
Advanced data security in embeds
Additional embedding configurations
Embed SDK for React
DEVELOP
Sigma API
Plugin development
ADMIN
Administer Sigma
Users and teams
Permissions
Authentication
Third-party integrations
Organization settings
Customize
Localize
Manage assets
Audit and usage
Develop
SUPPORT
Sigma support
Sigma product releases
Supported regions, data platforms, and features
Manage materializations
Suggest Edits
🚩
Materialization of datasets is generally available. Materialization of data elements in data models or workbooks is in public beta.
This documentation describes a public beta feature and is under construction. This documentation should not be considered part of our published documentation until this notice, and the corresponding Beta flag on the feature in Sigma, are removed. As with any beta feature, the feature discussed below is subject to quick, iterative changes. The latest experience in the Sigma service may differ from the contents of this document.
Beta features are subject to the disclaimer on Beta features.
If you are the admin of an organization, you can manage and troubleshoot materialization activity. For more details about materialization, see About materialization (Beta).
Requirements
To manage and troubleshoot materializations, you must be assigned the Admin account type.
Review scheduled materializations for your organization
To see a list of all materializations scheduled in your Sigma organization, do the following:
Go to the Admin Portal.
In the left panel, click Materializations.
Review the listed data elements and documents:
Search for a specific materialized element or dataset by element name, data model or workbook name, or dataset name.
Review the status column, for example to verify if a specific materialization was successful.
Filter the table, for example by status or document type.
Sort the table columns in ascending or descending order, for example to review schedules in time order.
Select an element or dataset name to open the document.
Pause scheduled materializations
By default, Sigma pauses scheduled materializations that have not been used for 60 days or if they fail to run five times in a row. Any owner of a scheduled materialization can also manually pause a materialization. If a materialization is paused, materialized data is not used.
As an admin, you can change the settings used to automatically pause unused materialization schedules:
Open the Administration portal.
In the left panel, select Materializations.
For Pause schedule, select the option that reflects your business requirements:
Never: Select this option if you do not want to pause materializations for any reason.
If materialization table is not used for... days: Specify a number of days after which to pause materializations that are not in use. The default setting is 60 days.
Changes take effect immediately.
To resume a paused materialization schedule, locate the paused materialization schedule in the table, then select More > Resume.
View materialization logs and statistics
You can review logs and other usage data for your organization's materialization activity in the Usage Dashboard.
Open the Administration portal.
In the left panel, click Usage, then select the Materialization tab.
Review the usage statistics and logs for all of your organization's materialization runs.
Troubleshoot failing materializations
Materialization can fail for a number of reasons. Depending on what is materialized, users might experience different data:
If materialization for a dataset fails, the dataset continues to use the last successful materialization.
If materialization for a data element in a workbook or data model fails, the element uses live data and does not use the last successful materialization.
To troubleshoot a failed materialization, open the Materialization tab of the Usage page, you can view the logs for each materialization run, including specific error messages for failed materialization runs in the Materialization Logs table.
When troubleshooting a failed materialization, review the materialization limitations and review the lineage for the data element, including any dataset links if relevant.
Resources
Sigma home
Blog
Learn
Product FAQs
© 2025 Sigma Computing