Home
Community
QuickStarts
Status
Documentation
API Recipes
API Reference
What's New
Search
START
About Sigma
Start using Sigma
CONNECT
Connect to data sources
Manage connections
ADD DATA
CSV uploads
Input tables
MODEL
Get started with data modeling (Beta)
Data models (Beta)
Model data from database tables
Datasets
Add and manage data
Join data
Transform data
ANALYZE
Workbook basics
Build a workbook
Data elements
Tables
Query
MANAGE WORKBOOKS
Manage a workbook
Workbook templates
Workbook lifecycle
Workbook performance
Workbook security
Manage SQL queries
CHART
Intro to charts
Build a chart
Customize a chart
FILTER
Filter data
Intro to control elements
Work with controls
DESIGN
Design layout
UI elements
Workbook formatting
ADD LOGIC
Intro to actions
Create workbook actions
Configure workbook actions
INTERACT
Interact with workbooks
Interact with charts
Collaborate in workbooks
Search for files in your organization
SHARE
Share a workbook
Share a folder
Share templates
Send or schedule workbook exports
Export data
Manage scheduled exports
About exporting data
CALCULATE
Operators overview
Use AI with formulas (Beta)
Perform AI queries
Functions
Metrics
Custom functions
EMBED
Intro to embedded analytics
Public embedding
Secure embedding
Advanced data security in embeds
Additional embedding configurations
Embed SDK for React
DEVELOP
Sigma API
Plugin development
ADMIN
Administer Sigma
Users and teams
Permissions
Authentication
Third-party integrations
Organization settings
Customize
Localize
Manage assets
Audit and usage
Develop
SUPPORT
Sigma support
Sigma product releases
Supported regions, data platforms, and features
Export to Slack
Suggest Edits
If Slack notifications are enabled for your organization, workbooks, their pages, and individual elements can be sent to any channel in your Slack account on a set schedule or as-needed basis.
For example, you might want to provide a weekly uptime report to your management team, but your team communicates primarily in Slack. You can set up an export to a Slack channel or a specific user to make sure your management sees the report.
You can set multiple export schedules for a workbook. Slack exports capture data accessible to the user who initiated the export.
Sigma generates exports from the workbook's latest published version. You can also choose to export a tagged version of the workbook. Depending on the file format you choose, you can also export a bookmark. Changes you make to a workbook draft or exploration cannot be exported unless you publish the changes. For a matrix of supported file formats, see Available export destinations and formats.
This documentation describes how to send and schedule exports to Slack.
User requirements
The ability to export to Slack requires the following:
The Slack integration must be enabled for your organization. If you want to send notifications to a private channel, you must also add Sigma to the private channel. See Adding Sigma to a private Slack channel.
You must be assigned an account type with the Export to Slack permission enabled.
You must be the workbook owner or be granted Can explore or Can edit workbook permission.
Export size limit
The size limit for exports to Slack is 1GB per file. See Download, export, and upload limitations.
Send an ad hoc notification
To export information from a workbook to Slack:
From the workbook menu , select Export.
📘
If the Slack option is not available, the workbook is in Edit mode. Either publish your draft or return to the latest published or tagged version of the workbook before attempting to export.
Select Slack.
In the To field, enter the name of the Slack channel, for example, #team-channel.
If you want to send the notification to a private channel, you must first add the Sigma notifications bot to the channel. Enter @Sigma in your private channel to enable it. See Adding Sigma to a private Slack channel.
(Optional) Enter a message in the Message field.
You can notify individuals by user ID. Get the Slack member ID for the user from their Slack user profile, then use the syntax <@user_id> in the message. The angle brackets are required.
You can also use Slack channel @ mentions, such as @here or @channel, to notify people in the Slack channel when the notification is delivered.
If the workbook has versions or bookmarks, select which one you want to send.
In the Attachment section, choose what you want to export as an attachment. You can export:
An Entire workbook and export all workbook pages.
A specific workbook page, by navigating to the workbook page and choosing Entire page.
An element on a specific workbook page, by navigating to the workbook page and choosing the name of the element.
Select + Add to add more attachments.
For each attachment, select a supported file format. For a matrix of supported file formats, see Available export destinations and formats.
Each attachment arrives in Slack as a separate message, except for combined attachments.
(Optional) To include a link to the workbook in the message body, select the checkbox for Include workbook link.
Exports to Slack capture data accessible to the member who initiated the export. If a user clicks the workbook link, Sigma only displays what that individual user has permission to view.
(Optional) Depending on the attachment formats that you select, you can configure more options like combining attachments, sending attachments in a zip file, and more, See Configure additional options for exports.
Click Export.
Schedule a Slack notification
Sigma generates exports from the workbook's latest published version. Draft changes are not sent unless they are published.
To schedule an export to Slack notification:
From the workbook menu , select Schedule exports....
If this is the first schedule for the workbook, click Add Schedule, otherwise click + New schedule.
Select Slack.
In the To field, enter the name of the Slack channel, for example, #team-channel.
If you want to send the notification to a private channel, you must first add the Sigma notifications bot to the channel. Enter @Sigma in your private channel to enable it. See Adding Sigma to a private Slack channel.
(Optional) Enter a message in the Message field.
You can notify individuals by user ID. Get the Slack member ID for the user from their Slack user profile, then use the syntax @<user_id> in the message. The angle brackets are required.
You can also use Slack channel @ mentions, such as @here or @channel, to notify people in the Slack channel when the notification is delivered.
In the Attachment section, choose what you want to export as an attachment. You can export:
An Entire workbook and export all workbook pages.
A specific workbook page, by navigating to the workbook page and choosing Entire page.
An element on a specific workbook page, by navigating to the workbook page and choosing the name of the element.
Select + Add to add more attachments.
For each attachment, select a supported file format. For a matrix of supported file formats, see Available export destinations and formats.
Each attachment arrives in Slack as a separate message, except for combined attachments.
🚧
When executing a scheduled export or direct download to PDF or PNG formats, Sigma may store applicable control values as URL parameters in trace logs used for debugging and troubleshooting purposes. Exercise caution when exporting or downloading workbook content that uses controls to filter sensitive data.
In the Frequency section, set the delivery schedule:
(Optional) Select the dropdown for Daily and select Weekly, Monthly, or Custom.
For Daily, select Once a day or Multiple times.
For Weekly, select which days of the week to send an email, and choose between Once a day or Multiple times.
For Monthly, select which day of the month to send an email, and the time of day.
For Custom, specify a schedule using cron syntax. See Set up a custom delivery schedule.
If you select Multiple times, specify the frequency. For example, every 2 hours on the :15 of the hour between 9 AM and 6 PM.
📘
If you don't have the option to set a specific frequency, export frequency might be restricted for your organization. For more details, see Restrict export recipients and frequency.
(Optional) Adjust the default schedule time zone using the dropdown menu.
(Optional) Choose how often to send the export: Always or only If a condition is met. See Schedule a conditional export or alert.
(Optional) If you choose to send an export only If a condition is met, you can turn on the switch to stop notifying after a set number of occurrences per day, week, or in total. (This feature is in beta and subject to the Beta features notice).
(Optional) To include a link to the workbook in the message body, select the checkbox for Include workbook link.
Exports to Slack capture data accessible to the member who initiated the export. However, if a user clicks the workbook link, Sigma only displays what that individual user has permission to view.
(Optional) Select the checkbox for Customize control values to filter the exported data according to the value of one or more workbook controls. See Configure additional options for exports.
(Optional) Depending on the attachment formats that you select, you can configure more options like combining attachments, sending attachments in a zip file, and more, See Configure additional options for exports.
Click Create.
RELATED RESOURCES
Integration for Slack
Send and schedule exports from workbooks
Schedule exports using conditions
Resources
Sigma home
Blog
Learn
Product FAQs
© 2025 Sigma Computing