Home
Community
QuickStarts
Status
Documentation
API Recipes
API Reference
What's New
Search
START
About Sigma
Start using Sigma
CONNECT
Connect to data sources
Manage connections
ADD DATA
CSV uploads
Input tables
MODEL
Get started with data modeling (Beta)
Data models (Beta)
Model data from database tables
Datasets
Add and manage data
Join data
Transform data
ANALYZE
Workbook basics
Build a workbook
Data elements
Tables
Query
MANAGE WORKBOOKS
Manage a workbook
Workbook templates
Workbook lifecycle
Workbook performance
Workbook security
Manage SQL queries
CHART
Intro to charts
Build a chart
Customize a chart
FILTER
Filter data
Intro to control elements
Work with controls
DESIGN
Design layout
UI elements
Workbook formatting
ADD LOGIC
Intro to actions
Create workbook actions
Configure workbook actions
INTERACT
Interact with workbooks
Interact with charts
Collaborate in workbooks
Search for files in your organization
SHARE
Share a workbook
Share a folder
Share templates
Send or schedule workbook exports
Export data
Manage scheduled exports
About exporting data
CALCULATE
Operators overview
Use AI with formulas (Beta)
Perform AI queries
Functions
Metrics
Custom functions
EMBED
Intro to embedded analytics
Public embedding
Secure embedding
Advanced data security in embeds
Additional embedding configurations
Embed SDK for React
DEVELOP
Sigma API
Plugin development
ADMIN
Administer Sigma
Users and teams
Permissions
Authentication
Third-party integrations
Organization settings
Customize
Localize
Manage assets
Audit and usage
Develop
SUPPORT
Sigma support
Sigma product releases
Supported regions, data platforms, and features
Share and accept cross-org workbook templates
Suggest Edits
Cross-org sharing allows you to share and accept workbook templates across different Sigma organizations. When the receiving organization accepts a shared template, they must choose their own data source to populate the template, ensuring no data from the sharing organization is disclosed.
This document explains how to share and accept a workbook template across organizations.
User requirements
To share or accept a workbook template through cross-org sharing, you must be assigned the Admin account type.
Share a template with another organization
Go to your Home page.
In the navigation menu, select Templates.
In the Templates page, locate the template you want to share, then click More and select Share from the menu.
📘
To add new template, first click Create Template, then create a template from a saved workbook.
In the Share Template modal, click Share across Sigma Orgs.
In the Cross Org Share Template modal, provide the required information:
In the Company Login URL Slug field, enter the slug associated with the receiving organization. This is a unique identifier that typically follows app.sigmacomputing.com/ in the Sigma URL.
[optional] In the Add a message field, enter a message to include in the invitation email Sigma sends to the receiving organization's admins.
Click Share Template.
Accept a template shared with your organization
When your organization receives an invitation to use a shared template, you or another admin must swap the data source (to populate the template with your organization's data) before accepting it. The template will not be available to your organization members until this is completed.
In the invitation email, click Open in Sigma.
In the Swap Data Sources Overview modal, Sigma identifies connections and data sources that closely match the data used in the original template. Choose from these matches to automatically swap the data, or manually select and match individual data source columns.
Use a matching connection and data source:
In the Matching Connection and Matching Data Sources fields, select the relevant options.
Click Choose to preview the template with the swapped data.
Manually select and map the data:
Click Match Manually.
In the Swap Data Sources screen, preview the column names from the template's original data source, then click Select Source.
In the Select source to replace modal, select the preferred data source to populate the template. To view and select a data source from a different connection, click Back in the source selector.
Review the selected data, then click Select to proceed.
In the Swap Data Sources screen, map the template's original data source columns to the swapped data source columns.
Click Choose to preview the template with the swapped data.
To save the template with the swapped data, click Accept in the workbook header. Otherwise, click Swap sources and repeat step 2 to select different data.
RELATED RESOURCES
Create and edit workbook templates
Share workbook templates
Resources
Sigma home
Blog
Learn
Product FAQs
© 2025 Sigma Computing