Home
Community
QuickStarts
Status
Documentation
API Recipes
API Reference
What's New
Search
START
About Sigma
Start using Sigma
CONNECT
Connect to data sources
Manage connections
ADD DATA
CSV uploads
Input tables
MODEL
Get started with data modeling (Beta)
Data models (Beta)
Model data from database tables
Datasets
Add and manage data
Join data
Transform data
ANALYZE
Workbook basics
Build a workbook
Data elements
Tables
Query
MANAGE WORKBOOKS
Manage a workbook
Workbook templates
Workbook lifecycle
Workbook performance
Workbook security
Manage SQL queries
CHART
Intro to charts
Build a chart
Customize a chart
FILTER
Filter data
Intro to control elements
Work with controls
DESIGN
Design layout
UI elements
Workbook formatting
ADD LOGIC
Intro to actions
Create workbook actions
Configure workbook actions
INTERACT
Interact with workbooks
Interact with charts
Collaborate in workbooks
Search for files in your organization
SHARE
Share a workbook
Share a folder
Share templates
Send or schedule workbook exports
Export data
Manage scheduled exports
About exporting data
CALCULATE
Operators overview
Use AI with formulas (Beta)
Perform AI queries
Functions
Metrics
Custom functions
EMBED
Intro to embedded analytics
Public embedding
Secure embedding
Advanced data security in embeds
Additional embedding configurations
Embed SDK for React
DEVELOP
Sigma API
Plugin development
ADMIN
Administer Sigma
Users and teams
Permissions
Authentication
Third-party integrations
Organization settings
Customize
Localize
Manage assets
Audit and usage
Develop
SUPPORT
Sigma support
Sigma product releases
Supported regions, data platforms, and features
About metrics
Suggest Edits
Metrics are dynamic and reusable calculations that are specific to a data source. As such, metrics usually reference specific columns. You can create a metric to provide reliable and efficient aggregate calculations, abstracting complex formulas away from business users.
For example, you might calculate any of these example metrics:
Annual recurring revenue (ARR), net dollar retention (NDR), and churn rate for a revenue data source.
Total customers, engaged customers, and active customers for a customer data source.
Monthly active users for a product telemetry data source.
Total page views, unique users, and total sessions for a website analytics data source.
Some of these are repetitive to calculate, others are complex and could be built with different interpretations, so you don't want individual business users to calculate them independently as calculated columns. Metrics help ensure consistent and accurate calculations across your organization.
If you want to create reusable calculations that can take any column of a specific data type as an argument, make a custom function instead. You can use a custom function in a formula.
Choosing between metrics and calculated columns
Metrics are dynamic and reusable calculations that are data source-specific and therefore associated with specific data source columns. A metric provides aggregated values at any grouping level.
Calculated columns are static and specific to the data element on which they are created. A calculated column uses calculations to produce static unaggregated values for individual (ungrouped) table rows, or aggregated values at specific static grouping levels.
When you add a calculated column to a data element, you define its calculation logic. Metric logic definition resides in the data source and you can reuse it in any element that references the data model, dataset, or database table.
If the logic for a calculation changes, you must individually edit calculated columns in all applicable elements. If you use a metric instead, you can update the metric formula once in the data source and automatically recalculate the metric results in all elements that use the metric.
You can add metrics or calculated columns to a data model or dataset. You can also add metrics to a database or catalog table from a connection.
Limitations
Metrics do not propagate through joins or unions, or to child elements that are based on a grouping level instead of all source columns. To make a metric available to child elements of a joined table, define the metric on the output of the join.
You can only define metrics in one data source. If the same metric logic applies across your organization, or across multiple data sources, you must define the metric in each applicable data model, dataset, or database table.
Metric formulas do not support window functions or join functions.
You cannot directly reference metrics in dynamic text. To include metric output in dynamic text, create a calculation column that references the metric, then reference that column in the dynamic text formula.
Dataset-specific limitations
If you make a dataset based on a dataset or database table with metrics, the metrics are not inherited. Instead, you must recreate the metrics.
Data model-specific limitations
You cannot nest or stack metrics in data models.
If you add, edit, or delete a metric on a data model that is materialized, or that has materialized child elements, the materialized data is not used until a new materialization job runs. The materialized data is used if the new or updated metric meets the following conditions:
The columns used by the metric are in use by existing metrics.
The updated metric does not reference any new columns. For example, changing a metric formula from [Column] * 0.1 to [Column] * 100 does not require a new materialization run.
Resources
Sigma home
Blog
Learn
Product FAQs
© 2025 Sigma Computing