Home
Community
QuickStarts
Status
Documentation
API Recipes
API Reference
What's New
Search
START
About Sigma
Start using Sigma
CONNECT
Connect to data sources
Manage connections
ADD DATA
CSV uploads
Input tables
MODEL
Get started with data modeling (Beta)
Data models (Beta)
Model data from database tables
Datasets
Add and manage data
Join data
Transform data
ANALYZE
Workbook basics
Build a workbook
Data elements
Tables
Query
MANAGE WORKBOOKS
Manage a workbook
Workbook templates
Workbook lifecycle
Workbook performance
Workbook security
Manage SQL queries
CHART
Intro to charts
Build a chart
Customize a chart
FILTER
Filter data
Intro to control elements
Work with controls
DESIGN
Design layout
UI elements
Workbook formatting
ADD LOGIC
Intro to actions
Create workbook actions
Configure workbook actions
INTERACT
Interact with workbooks
Interact with charts
Collaborate in workbooks
Search for files in your organization
SHARE
Share a workbook
Share a folder
Share templates
Send or schedule workbook exports
Export data
Manage scheduled exports
About exporting data
CALCULATE
Operators overview
Use AI with formulas (Beta)
Perform AI queries
Functions
Metrics
Custom functions
EMBED
Intro to embedded analytics
Public embedding
Secure embedding
Advanced data security in embeds
Additional embedding configurations
Embed SDK for React
DEVELOP
Sigma API
Plugin development
ADMIN
Administer Sigma
Users and teams
Permissions
Authentication
Third-party integrations
Organization settings
Customize
Localize
Manage assets
Audit and usage
Develop
SUPPORT
Sigma support
Sigma product releases
Supported regions, data platforms, and features
Configure an action sequence
Suggest Edits
Configure an action sequence to run a set of workbook actions in a specific order.
Action sequences ensure user interactions trigger multiple actions in the order necessary to achieve a particular workbook response. Sigma allows you to add and reorder actions within a sequence, move actions between different sequences, and duplicate an existing sequence. You can also configure a condition that determines whether or not a sequence executes.
This document explains how to create and manage an action sequence. For more information about available workbook actions, see Intro to actions.
📘
An action sequence only defines the order in which actions are executed within that sequence. Actions in different sequences run concurrently and may not finish in the order the sequences are configured and displayed in the action panel.
User requirements
📘
The following requirements apply to users who configure actions. Users who access and interact with a workbook can typically trigger all existing actions within it. Any restrictions are noted in this document.
The ability to configure actions requires the following:
You must be assigned an account type with the Full explore or Create, edit, and publish workbooks permission enabled.
You must be the workbook owner or be granted Can explore1 or Can edit workbook permission.
1
If you’re granted Can explore workbook permission, you can configure actions but cannot save changes to the workbook’s published version.
Limitations
The Trigger plugin action is not guaranteed to execute in sequence. In cases where you use an action to set or clear a control and expect your plugin to read the updated value, the plugin may read the original value instead.
Create an action sequence
To create a new action sequence, follow these steps:
Open a workbook in Explore or Edit mode.
Select an element that you want to trigger a set of actions, then click Actions in the side navigation.
In the Actions panel, add an action using one of these methods:
Click Add action within an existing sequence. If there were no previously configured actions on this element, add the action inside the empty sequence group.
Click Add action sequence at the top of the actions panel to add the action outside of an existing sequence. Choosing this option creates a new action sequence group positioned below any previously existing ones.
Configure your action.
Click Add action to add another action to your sequence. Sigma duplicates the immediately previous action in the sequence, which you can then modify.
Continue adding and configuring actions in your sequence until you achieve the behavior you wanted for that element. You can drag and drop the actions within the sequence to change their order.
[optional] If you want the sequence to execute only in certain circumstances, click More, then click Add condition. See Make an action conditional for more information about action conditions.
[optional] Rename the sequence and individual actions within the sequence by double-clicking on the sequence or action names. Giving your actions and the sequences more meaningful names can help you quickly differentiate them when you have a large number of actions triggering from a single element.
Organize multiple actions into a sequence
If an element has multiple actions configured, each action runs in parallel by default. If you want to control the order in which multiple actions on an element execute, move them into the same sequence and arrange them in the order that you want.
Open a workbook in Explore or Edit mode.
Select an element that has multiple actions configured on it, then click Actions in the side navigation.
In the Actions panel, review the actions that you have and decide which ones to organize in a sequence.
If the actions have different conditions that determine whether or not they run, place them in different sequences. Each sequence can only have a single condition. See Make an action conditional for more information about action conditions.
If the order of execution matters for the actions, place them in the same sequence.
Drag and drop your actions to move them between sequences and to change the order within sequences.
Save the workbook, then test your action in the workbook to ensure the execution logic matches your intentions.
Resources
Sigma home
Blog
Learn
Product FAQs
© 2025 Sigma Computing