Home
Community
QuickStarts
Status
Documentation
API Recipes
API Reference
What's New
Search
START
About Sigma
Start using Sigma
CONNECT
Connect to data sources
Manage connections
ADD DATA
CSV uploads
Input tables
MODEL
Get started with data modeling (Beta)
Data models (Beta)
Model data from database tables
Datasets
Add and manage data
Join data
Transform data
ANALYZE
Workbook basics
Build a workbook
Data elements
Tables
Query
MANAGE WORKBOOKS
Manage a workbook
Workbook templates
Workbook lifecycle
Workbook performance
Workbook security
Manage SQL queries
CHART
Intro to charts
Build a chart
Customize a chart
FILTER
Filter data
Intro to control elements
Work with controls
DESIGN
Design layout
UI elements
Workbook formatting
ADD LOGIC
Intro to actions
Create workbook actions
Configure workbook actions
INTERACT
Interact with workbooks
Interact with charts
Collaborate in workbooks
Search for files in your organization
SHARE
Share a workbook
Share a folder
Share templates
Send or schedule workbook exports
Export data
Manage scheduled exports
About exporting data
CALCULATE
Operators overview
Use AI with formulas (Beta)
Perform AI queries
Functions
Metrics
Custom functions
EMBED
Intro to embedded analytics
Public embedding
Secure embedding
Advanced data security in embeds
Additional embedding configurations
Embed SDK for React
DEVELOP
Sigma API
Plugin development
ADMIN
Administer Sigma
Users and teams
Permissions
Authentication
Third-party integrations
Organization settings
Customize
Localize
Manage assets
Audit and usage
Develop
SUPPORT
Sigma support
Sigma product releases
Supported regions, data platforms, and features
Manage organization translation files
Suggest Edits
Creating organization translation files allow you to serve the Sigma users in your organization and consumers of embedded analytics with custom workbook text in their preferred language. Custom workbook text includes any customizable workbook element titles and user-defined strings, including column names from source data.
Admins can manage organization translations by going to Administration > Account > General Settings > Locale or by using the API.
Organization translations are centrally managed translation files that translate commonly-used terms across all workbooks. As a result, workbook owners do not need to translate those common terms in each individual workbook.
Workbook owners can also manage translations for their workbooks on a per-workbook basis. A translated string in a workbook-level translation file takes precedence over a translation of the same string in an organization-level translation file.
For example, if you have hundreds of workbooks in your organization that use the term "Quantity" in data column names, you can upload a translation file for Spanish to specify that "Quantity" should appear as "Cantidad" for any users with their locale set to Spanish. If the owner of an individual workbook does not specify a translation for "Quantity" in their workbook-level translation file, Sigma applies the translation from the organization-level translation file and "Cantidad" will appear. If that workbook owner uploads a different translation for the term, Sigma uses the translation from the workbook-level translation file.
See Manage workbook localization for details on how workbook-level and organization-level translation files interact.
📘
Organization translations affect version-tagged workbooks.
If an organization translation exists for a language, any version-tagged workbooks viewed in that language use the translations. If you want to control how a translation appears in a version-tagged workbook, apply a workbook-level translation file to that workbook.
Supported languages
Sigma supports the following languages and locales:
Language Locale
Chinese (Simplified) zh-cn
English (United States) en
English (United Kingdom) en-gb
English (Australia) en-au
French fr
French (Canada) fr-ca
German de
Italian it
Japanese ja
Korean ko-kr
Polish pl
Portuguese pt
Portuguese (Brazil) pt-br
Russian ru
Spanish es
Swedish sv-se
Thai th
Requirements
You must be assigned the Admin account type.
Add a translation file
Go to the Administration > Account > General Settings tab.
In the Locale section, click Add next to Organization translations.
Choose the language for which you would like to create an organization-wide translation file.
📘
To maintain multiple unique translation files for the same language, choose Add custom translations. Adding a custom translation for a language allows you to translate common strings differently for different consumers of embedded dashboards, for example.
Click the download icon in the Actions column to download the json file.
Open the file with a text editor. The default file contains an example to demonstrate the required syntax.
JSON
{
  "This is an example": "This is an example",
  "This is a second example": "This is a second example"
}
Replace the example key-value pairs with valid json that represents the common phrases used in workbooks across your organization, and their translated values. For example:
JSON
{
   "Date": "Fecha",
   "Quantity": "Cantidad",
   "Cost": "Costs",
   "Price": "Precio",
   "Product Type": "Tipo de Producto"
}
Save the json file. Do not change the file name.
In the Actions column, click the upload icon to upload the file you just edited.
The translations you provided in the file apply immediately to the corresponding locale version of any workbook in the organization that uses those phrases, provided the workbook does not already provide a translation file that contains different translations for those phrases.
Preview organization translations in a workbook
To preview the results of translations, go to a workbook that uses the phrases you translated.
Click Edit.
Click the Manage settings icon (), located in the workbook’s left sidebar, to open your workbook’s settings panel.
Click Manage locales.
Preview the translation:
If a workbook-level translation for the language already exists, click the More icon (), then click Preview to open the workbook with that locale applied.
If no translation exists at the workbook level, click the plus icon (+) next to Available locales to add a new locale, and select the language. Then, click the More icon (), then click Preview to open the workbook with that locale applied.
Update an organization translation file
To update an organization translation file:
Go to the Administration > Account > General Settings tab.
Click the download icon () in the Actions column to download the json file.
Open the file with a text editor.
Update the json file to edit existing key-value pairs or add new ones.
Save the file. Do not change the file name.
In the Actions column, click the upload icon () to upload the file you just edited.
The translations you provided in the file apply immediately to the corresponding locale version of any workbook in the organization that uses those phrases, provided the workbook does not already provide a translation file that contains different translations for those phrases.
Resources
Sigma home
Blog
Learn
Product FAQs
© 2025 Sigma Computing