Home
Community
QuickStarts
Status
Documentation
API Recipes
API Reference
What's New
Search
START
About Sigma
Start using Sigma
CONNECT
Connect to data sources
Manage connections
ADD DATA
CSV uploads
Input tables
MODEL
Get started with data modeling (Beta)
Data models (Beta)
Model data from database tables
Datasets
Add and manage data
Join data
Transform data
ANALYZE
Workbook basics
Build a workbook
Data elements
Tables
Query
MANAGE WORKBOOKS
Manage a workbook
Workbook templates
Workbook lifecycle
Workbook performance
Workbook security
Manage SQL queries
CHART
Intro to charts
Build a chart
Customize a chart
FILTER
Filter data
Intro to control elements
Work with controls
DESIGN
Design layout
UI elements
Workbook formatting
ADD LOGIC
Intro to actions
Create workbook actions
Configure workbook actions
INTERACT
Interact with workbooks
Interact with charts
Collaborate in workbooks
Search for files in your organization
SHARE
Share a workbook
Share a folder
Share templates
Send or schedule workbook exports
Export data
Manage scheduled exports
About exporting data
CALCULATE
Operators overview
Use AI with formulas (Beta)
Perform AI queries
Functions
Metrics
Custom functions
EMBED
Intro to embedded analytics
Public embedding
Secure embedding
Advanced data security in embeds
Additional embedding configurations
Embed SDK for React
DEVELOP
Sigma API
Plugin development
ADMIN
Administer Sigma
Users and teams
Permissions
Authentication
Third-party integrations
Organization settings
Customize
Localize
Manage assets
Audit and usage
Develop
SUPPORT
Sigma support
Sigma product releases
Supported regions, data platforms, and features
Hierarchies (Beta)
Suggest Edits
🚩
This documentation describes a public beta feature and is under construction. This documentation should not be considered part of our published documentation until this notice, and the corresponding Beta flag on the feature in the Sigma service, are removed. As with any beta feature, the feature discussed below is subject to quick, iterative changes. The latest experience in the Sigma service might differ from the contents of this document.
Beta features are subject to the Beta features disclaimer.
Use hierarchies to group columns categorically and define the order of data granularity.
Common hierarchy examples:
Product: type, family, name
Location: continent, country, region, state, city
Time: year, month, week, day
Taxonomy: kingdom, phylum, class, order, family, genus, species
📘
Hierarchies can be defined in tables, pivot tables, and visualization elements, but they can only be applied to pivot tables.
Create a hierarchy
The following steps explain how to create a hierarchy.
Open a workbook in Edit mode.
Select the element for which you want to create a hierarchy. You can create a hierarchy in a table or in a pivot table, but note that you can only use hierarchies in pivot tables.
In the Columns menu, click the + icon, and choose Manage hierarchies.
In the Manage hierarchies modal, click + New hierarchy and define hierarchy properties:
In the Hierarchy name field, enter a name to identify the hierarchy.
In the Columns in hierarchy section, click Add column to add a column to the hierarchy.
When you add a column to a hierarchy, this column is labeled with a hierarchy icon in the workbook's Columns menu. Hover over the icon to view the hierarchy details.
To create additional hierarchies, click + New hierarchy in the Manage hierarchies modal, then repeat step 4.
Manage a hierarchy
You can rename a hierarchy, reorder columns, add new columns, remove existing columns, or delete a hierarchy altogether.
In the Manage hierarchies modal, select the hierarchy you want to update.
To rename the hierarchy, edit the Hierarchy name field.
To reorder columns, go to the Columns in hierarchy section, then drag and drop column names as needed.
To add a new column, go to the Columns in hierarchy section and click Add column.
To remove a column from the hierarchy, locate the column name in the Columns in hierarchy section and click Remove column.
To delete the hierarchy, locate the hierarchy name in the left panel and click Delete hierarchy.
Hierarchy inheritance
Child elements inherit all hierarchies defined in a parent element. Inherited hierarchies cannot be removed or modified from child elements, but new hierarchies can be added with full editing privileges.
When a hierarchy is selected in the Manage hierarchies modal, Sigma indicates if it's inherited from the parent element.
Using hierarchies
The following steps explain how to use defined hierarchies in pivot tables.
To create a pivot row with hierarchies, go to the Pivot Rows property and click Add new column.
In the Add new column menu, select a defined hierarchy.
To apply a hierarchy to the pivot values, go to the Values property and click Add new column.
In the Add new column menu, select a defined hierarchy.
The resulting pivot table demonstrates the configured hierarchies.
Limitations
Hierarchies can only be used in pivot tables.
Hierarchies exist in singular workbooks and cannot be not passed to datasets or other workbooks. 
When you update a hierarchy, Sigma does not apply those changes to pivot tables that currently use it.
Resources
Sigma home
Blog
Learn
Product FAQs
© 2025 Sigma Computing