Workbook modes overview
Suggest Edits
Sigma features three workbook modes (View, Explore, and Edit) that provide different levels of interactions, customizations, and analysis within a workbook. Each mode is designed to help you perform specific tasks depending on your objectives and permissions.
Workbook mode objectives
  View mode Explore mode Edit mode
Purpose Allows you to view a published version of a workbook (the version labeled “Published” and all tagged versions) Provides an isolated environment in which you can customize published workbook content and perform ad hoc analysis without affecting saved or shared versions of a workbook Provides a draft environment with full-scope analytic functionality that allows you to edit and save an individual or collaborative analysis
Use case Recommended when you need to view prepared data and insights without performing additional analysis. Recommended when you need quick answers to specific business questions, but you don’t need to save the analysis for future use or sharing Recommended when you need to build reports and publish them for future use or sharing
Required account type permission View workbooks or Basic explore Full explore Create, edit, and publish workbooks
Required workbook permission Can view, Can explore, Can edit, or Owner Can explore, Can edit, or Owner Can edit or Owner
Workbook accessibility comparison
The following table compares what you can do in each mode based on workbook permission.
View mode
(Can view)
View mode
(Can explore / Can edit)
Explore mode
(Can explore / Can edit) Edit mode
(Can edit)
Update control values
Modify existing filters
Sort column data
View column details
Expand/collapse grouped rows
View aggregated underlying data
Refresh data
Create bookmarks
View and add comments1
Create new filters
View and drill into unaggregated underlying data
Use drill paths ("Drill anywhere")
Format, reorder, rename, hide, freeze, and delete columns
Enter input table values2
Download individual elements to PNG
Download individual elements to CSV, Excel, JSON, Google Sheets, or PDF3
Send or schedule exports4
Copy data point values
Create, edit, and delete pages
Create, edit, and delete elements
(editing encompasses properties, format, actions, columns, etc.)
Duplicate and move existing elements
Copy/paste elements
View and change element data
sources
Add and modify columns
View custom SQL logic
Edit layouts and workbook settings
View lineage
View hidden pages
Publish workbook edits
1
Requires an account type with the Can comment on workbooks permission enabled.
2
Requires the input table element's data entry permission to be set to the workbook's published version.
3
The ability to download to CSV, Excel, JSON, and PDF requires an account type with the Download permission enabled. The ability to download to Google Sheets also requires the Export to Google Sheet permission.
4
The ability to send ad hoc exports requires an account type with the Export to Email or relevant destination permission enabled. The ability to schedule exports requires the Schedule export permission.
RELATED RESOURCES
Use a workbook in Explore mode
Workbook collaboration with Live Edit