Math functions
Suggest Edits
Math functions perform mathematical operations, including arithmetic, trigonometric, rounding, statistical, and logarithmic calculations.
Abs Returns the absolute value of a number.
Acos Returns the arccosine of an angle.
Asin Returns the arcsine of an angle.
Atan Returns the arctangent of an angle.
Atan2 Returns the arctangent of a coordinate pair.
BinFixed Calculates the bin of a value among the specified number of identically-sized bins.
BinRange Calculates the bin for a value using the specified lower bounds.
BitAnd Calculates the bitwise AND of two numbers.
BitOr Calculates the bitwise OR of two numbers.
Ceiling Rounds the number up to the closest multiple of equal or greater value.
Cos Returns the cosine of an angle.
Cot Returns the cotangent of an angle.
Degrees Converts the angle measurement from radians to degrees.
DistanceGlobe Calculates the distance between two points on the globe, in kilometers.
DistancePlane Calculates the distance between two points on a plane.
Div Returns the integer component of a division.
Exp Returns the mathematical constant e, or 2.71828.
Floor Rounds the number down to the closest multiple of equal or lesser value.
Greatest Returns the largest value from a list.
Int Rounds the integer down to the largest integer of lesser or equal value.
Least Returns the smallest value from a list.
Ln Calculates the natural logarithm of a number, log_e(n).
Log Calculates the logarithm of a number. Defaults to log_10(n).
Mod Returns the remainder component of a division.
MRound Rounds the number down to the closest multiple of the specified number.
Pi Returns the mathematical constant π, or 3.14159....
Power Calculates the result of a number raised to the specified power.
Radians Converts the angle measurement from degrees to radians.
Round Calculates the number to the specified number of digits.
RoundDown Rounds a number down to the specified number of digits or decimal places.
RoundUp Rounds a number up to the specified number of digits or decimal places.
RowAvg Calculates the average value of a list of numbers.
Sign Calculates the sign of a number. Returns -1 if negative, 1 if positive, or 0 if zero.
Sin Calculates the sine of an angle.
Sqrt Calculates the square root of a number.
Tan Calculates the tangent of an angle.
Trunc Truncates a number to the specified number of digits or decimal places.