Home
Community
QuickStarts
Status
Documentation
API Recipes
API Reference
What's New
Search
START
About Sigma
Start using Sigma
CONNECT
Connect to data sources
Manage connections
ADD DATA
CSV uploads
Input tables
MODEL
Get started with data modeling (Beta)
Data models (Beta)
Model data from database tables
Datasets
Add and manage data
Join data
Transform data
ANALYZE
Workbook basics
Build a workbook
Data elements
Tables
Query
MANAGE WORKBOOKS
Manage a workbook
Workbook templates
Workbook lifecycle
Workbook performance
Workbook security
Manage SQL queries
CHART
Intro to charts
Build a chart
Customize a chart
FILTER
Filter data
Intro to control elements
Work with controls
DESIGN
Design layout
UI elements
Workbook formatting
ADD LOGIC
Intro to actions
Create workbook actions
Configure workbook actions
INTERACT
Interact with workbooks
Interact with charts
Collaborate in workbooks
Search for files in your organization
SHARE
Share a workbook
Share a folder
Share templates
Send or schedule workbook exports
Export data
Manage scheduled exports
About exporting data
CALCULATE
Operators overview
Use AI with formulas (Beta)
Perform AI queries
Functions
Metrics
Custom functions
EMBED
Intro to embedded analytics
Public embedding
Secure embedding
Advanced data security in embeds
Additional embedding configurations
Embed SDK for React
DEVELOP
Sigma API
Plugin development
ADMIN
Administer Sigma
Users and teams
Permissions
Authentication
Third-party integrations
Organization settings
Customize
Localize
Manage assets
Audit and usage
Develop
SUPPORT
Sigma support
Sigma product releases
Supported regions, data platforms, and features
Mandatory two-factor authentication for accounts
Suggest Edits
Starting December 11, 2024, two-factor authentication (2FA) via email is enabled by default for all new and existing Sigma users that use password-based authentication.
This change is implemented to protect against security threats. 2FA enhances security by adding an extra layer of protection to customer accounts.
As this is a mandatory requirement, you cannot apply for an exception to 2FA. After 2FA is enabled, it cannot be disabled.
There is no additional cost associated with enabling 2FA.
When will this change take place?
The mandatory 2FA via email for password-based users is enforced starting December 11, 2024.
Who is affected by this change?
All customers currently using password-based authentication are affected. Users with SAML or OAuth authentication methods are not affected.
Sigma automatically enables 2FA via email for all users with password-based accounts. During the sign in process, after entering their existing password, users receive a 2FA code sent to their registered email address. This code must be entered to complete the sign in process.
For password-based users, the mandatory 2FA process is only be available through email, and not through other modes such as SMS or an authentication app.
Organizations using SAML or OAuth may have other 2FA options available, depending on their organization infrastructure. If you want to switch from password-based authentication to SAML or OAuth, your organization's IT team must configure and enable SAML or OAuth in your environment. See Manage authentication for more information. Contact Sigma Support for additional assistance.
Are guest and embed users affected?
Embed users are not affected as they cannot to sign in to Sigma (the secure embed URLs use client ID and client secret for access).
If your organization has enabled guest users, they are required to sign in with 2FA. To access your authentication settings, see Manage authentication method and options.
Effects on organizations using SAML or OAuth
Authentication methods using SAML or OAuth only are not affected by this change. Any user account configured with a password option (such as SAML or Password and OAuth or Password) has 2FA enabled by default. If using the password option during sign-in, you will need to complete the email 2FA process.
Sigma encourages the use of stronger authentication mechanisms, such as SAML and OAuth, but they are not required at this time.
How will this change affect the user experience and API access?
For users who continue using password-based authentication, the only change is the need to enter a 2FA code sent via email. For organizations using SAML or OAuth, there is no change in the login experience.
This change does not impact API access. The authentication process for our public API does not include 2FA.
Troubleshooting
What if users forget their 2FA email or are locked out?
For further assistance, contact Sigma Support or your dedicated Sigma Account Executive.
Who can I contact for support or additional questions?
For further assistance, please reach out to Sigma’s support team or your dedicated Sigma account representative.
How will 2FA affect browser-based automation accounts (such as Cypress or Selenium testing accounts)?
These accounts may not be able to complete the 2FA process required to access Sigma. For automated testing, we recommend using the Sigma REST API.
Resources
Sigma home
Blog
Learn
Product FAQs
© 2025 Sigma Computing