Home
Community
QuickStarts
Status
Documentation
API Recipes
API Reference
What's New
Search
START
About Sigma
Start using Sigma
CONNECT
Connect to data sources
Manage connections
ADD DATA
CSV uploads
Input tables
MODEL
Get started with data modeling (Beta)
Data models (Beta)
Model data from database tables
Datasets
Add and manage data
Join data
Transform data
ANALYZE
Workbook basics
Build a workbook
Data elements
Tables
Query
MANAGE WORKBOOKS
Manage a workbook
Workbook templates
Workbook lifecycle
Workbook performance
Workbook security
Manage SQL queries
CHART
Intro to charts
Build a chart
Customize a chart
FILTER
Filter data
Intro to control elements
Work with controls
DESIGN
Design layout
UI elements
Workbook formatting
ADD LOGIC
Intro to actions
Create workbook actions
Configure workbook actions
INTERACT
Interact with workbooks
Interact with charts
Collaborate in workbooks
Search for files in your organization
SHARE
Share a workbook
Share a folder
Share templates
Send or schedule workbook exports
Export data
Manage scheduled exports
About exporting data
CALCULATE
Operators overview
Use AI with formulas (Beta)
Perform AI queries
Functions
Metrics
Custom functions
EMBED
Intro to embedded analytics
Public embedding
Secure embedding
Advanced data security in embeds
Additional embedding configurations
Embed SDK for React
DEVELOP
Sigma API
Plugin development
ADMIN
Administer Sigma
Users and teams
Permissions
Authentication
Third-party integrations
Organization settings
Customize
Localize
Manage assets
Audit and usage
Develop
SUPPORT
Sigma support
Sigma product releases
Supported regions, data platforms, and features
Export as email burst
Suggest Edits
You can send a custom-filtered report to a dynamic list of recipients as a scheduled email burst. For example, you might send individual sales representatives their individual quarterly performance numbers for all categories of product that they sell. Because each sales rep is only responsible for one region, customize the report to provide relevant region-specific data, and filter the elements on the page with a page control for the store region.
In this example, the sales rep assigned to the West Store Region would receive this report as an email attachment in her email inbox:
Limitations
When exporting as an email burst, certain limitations apply:
The control that you split by must be a list control with values sourced from a column. You can split by a maximum of 500 values.
The split by column must be a number or text data type.
The source of the dynamic recipients must be a column in the same data source that the list control is sourced from. You can send to a maximum of 500 dynamic recipients.
The size limit for emailed exports is 30MB. This is the total limit for all attachments when combined. If an export exceeds this limit, the entire export fails and the owner of the scheduled export is notified. Scheduled exports that repeatedly exceed this limit are automatically paused and their owner notified. See Download, export, and upload limitations.
🚧
When executing a scheduled export or direct download to PDF or PNG formats, Sigma may store applicable control values as URL parameters in trace logs used for debugging and troubleshooting purposes. Exercise caution when exporting or downloading workbook content that uses controls to filter sensitive data.
Requirements
You must be assigned an account type with the Export as email burst permission enabled.
Have Can Edit or Can Explore access to the individual workbook.
📘
If your organization restricts email traffic sent from specific IP addresses, add 198.37.153.185 to the allowlist. Alternatively, you can configure a custom SMTP server to use instead. See Custom SMTP server.
Schedule an email burst
From the workbook menu (), select Schedule export....
If this is the first schedule for the workbook, click Add Schedule, otherwise click + New schedule.
Select Export as email burst.
For Split by..., select a control to use as the split-by value.
Choose recipients for the email burst. You can include both dynamic and standard recipients:
For Dynamic recipients, select a column from the data source used to populate the list control used as split-by values. Dynamic recipients receive only the attachments relevant to the associated split by control value. Leave empty to send all attachments to a static list of recipients.
For Standard recipients, enter one or more comma-separated Sigma teams, Sigma users, or email addresses. Combined with Dynamic recipients, you can email up to 1,000 total recipients. Standard recipients receive all attachments.
📘
If export authentication is configured for your organization by an admin, you can only send the export to email addresses associated with an authorized domain. For Standard recipients When you attempt to create the schedule, Sigma notifies you if an email address contains a domain that's not allowed. For Dynamic recipients, emails to restricted addresses are not sent. See Restrict export recipients.
(Optional) In the Subject field, enter a subject line.
(Optional) In the Email Body field, enter a message.
If the workbook has tagged versions, select a version to send. By default, the published version is sent.
In the Attachment section, choose what you want to export as an attachment. You can export:
An Entire workbook and export all workbook pages.
A specific workbook page, by navigating to the workbook page and choosing Entire page.
An element on a specific workbook page, by selecting the workbook page and choosing the name of the element.
In the Frequency section, set the delivery schedule:
(Optional) Select the dropdown for Daily and select Weekly, Monthly, or Custom.
For Daily, select Once a day or Multiple times.
For Weekly, select which days of the week to send an email, and choose between Once a day or Multiple times.
For Monthly, select which day of the month to send an email, and the time of day.
For Custom, specify a schedule using cron syntax. See Set up a custom delivery schedule.
If you select Multiple times, specify the frequency. For example, every 2 hours on the :15 of the hour between 9 AM and 6 PM.
📘
If you don't have the option to set a specific frequency, export frequency might be restricted for your organization. For more details, see Restrict export recipients and frequency.
(Optional) Adjust the default schedule time zone using the dropdown menu.
(Optional) Choose how often to send the export: Always or only If a condition is met. See Schedule a conditional export or alert.
(Optional) If you choose to send an export only If a condition is met, you can turn on the switch to stop notifying after a set number of occurrences per day, week, or in total. (This feature is in beta and subject to the Beta features notice).
📘
Conditions are evaluated separately for each split by control value, but the number of occurrences is evaluated for the condition overall. For example, if you send an email burst to a dynamic list of recipients once per day if a table has data in it, the email burst is sent once per day to whichever recipients have data in that table. If, later that day, the table has data in it for other recipients, no email burst is sent.
(Optional) By default, Sigma includes a link to the workbook in the email body. If you don't want to include a link, deselect the checkbox for Include workbook link.
(Optional) Depending on the attachment formats that you select, you can configure more options like combining attachments, sending attachments in a zip file, and more. See Configure additional options for exports.
(Optional) Select the checkbox for Customize control values to filter the exported data according to the value of one or more workbook controls. See Configure additional options for exports.
Click Create.
Resources
Sigma home
Blog
Learn
Product FAQs
© 2025 Sigma Computing