Home
Community
QuickStarts
Status
Documentation
API Recipes
API Reference
What's New
Search
START
About Sigma
Start using Sigma
CONNECT
Connect to data sources
Manage connections
ADD DATA
CSV uploads
Input tables
MODEL
Get started with data modeling (Beta)
Data models (Beta)
Model data from database tables
Datasets
Add and manage data
Join data
Transform data
ANALYZE
Workbook basics
Build a workbook
Data elements
Tables
Query
MANAGE WORKBOOKS
Manage a workbook
Workbook templates
Workbook lifecycle
Workbook performance
Workbook security
Manage SQL queries
CHART
Intro to charts
Build a chart
Customize a chart
FILTER
Filter data
Intro to control elements
Work with controls
DESIGN
Design layout
UI elements
Workbook formatting
ADD LOGIC
Intro to actions
Create workbook actions
Configure workbook actions
INTERACT
Interact with workbooks
Interact with charts
Collaborate in workbooks
Search for files in your organization
SHARE
Share a workbook
Share a folder
Share templates
Send or schedule workbook exports
Export data
Manage scheduled exports
About exporting data
CALCULATE
Operators overview
Use AI with formulas (Beta)
Perform AI queries
Functions
Metrics
Custom functions
EMBED
Intro to embedded analytics
Public embedding
Secure embedding
Advanced data security in embeds
Additional embedding configurations
Embed SDK for React
DEVELOP
Sigma API
Plugin development
ADMIN
Administer Sigma
Users and teams
Permissions
Authentication
Third-party integrations
Organization settings
Customize
Localize
Manage assets
Audit and usage
Develop
SUPPORT
Sigma support
Sigma product releases
Supported regions, data platforms, and features
Data permissions overview
Suggest Edits
Sigma facilitates additive data permissions to support granular data security and flexible access control at any level of the data architecture and organizational structure.
This document describes the additive data permissions model and provides details about the available permission types. For information about viewing, adding, editing, and revoking grants, see Manage data permissions.
🚩
Data permission grants only affect members assigned account types (default or custom) using the Pro license.
Members assigned account types using Lite or Essential licenses can only view datasets and applicable workbooks (and only when the View datasets and View workbooks account type permissions are enabled).
Data permissions model
Data permissions are additive, meaning Sigma provides access and capabilities based on a cumulative set of permissions inherited or granted at different levels of the data architecture (connection, database, schema, database table) and organizational structure (organization, team, user).
In the data architecture, connection-level grants can be inherited at the database level, database-level grants can be inherited at the schema level, and schema-level grants can be inherited at the database table level. Likewise, in the organizational structure, group-level grants (for the entire organization or a configured team) can be inherited at the user level.
However, when admins grant permissions directly at the lower levels of the data architecture and organizational structure, Sigma applies the permission (inherited or granted) with the most privileges.
Example 1:
John is a member of an organization that connects to a single CDW database containing multiple schemas and database tables. An admin grants John Can use permission at the connection level, which allows him to use all databases, schemas, and database tables within the connection. The admin later grants John Can use & annotate permission for a specific schema, which enables him to use and annotate any database table within that particular schema. The schema-level grant overrides the inherited connection-level grant because the Can use & annotate permission allows more privileges. However, John maintains the inherited Can use permission for all other schemas and database tables that don’t have lower-level grants.
Example 2:
In the organization described in the previous example, Amy isn’t yet a Sales team member. At the connection level, an admin grants Can use & annotate permission for the Sales team and Can use permission for Amy as an individual user. At the moment, Amy can use the connection, schemas, and database tables, but she cannot annotate them. However, if the admin later adds her to the Sales team, Amy inherits the team-level grant and can then annotate any table in the connection. The inherited team-level grant overrides Amy’s user-level grant because the Can use & annotate permission allows more privileges.
In both examples, the additive permissions model applies the cumulative set of permissions inherited or granted at any given level and cannot restrict or revoke access and capabilities inherited by upper-level grants.
Data permission types
Sigma supports four permission types that grant various access and capabilities to connections, databases, schemas, and database tables: Can write only, Can use, Can use & annotate, and Can admin.
The following sections summarize each permission type. For a detailed permissions breakdown, see Data permissions matrix in this document.
📘
Admins can grant permissions to groups, regardless of whether all members qualify for the grant. However, individual users only inherit group-level grants if assigned the required account type permissions listed in the following sections.
Can write only
The Can write only permission restricts access to data while enabling users to create input tables and CSV upload that write data to the connection’s write-back destination. This permission type is ideal for enabling input tables and CSV uploads in embedded workbooks with restricted data access.
Permission granularity: Granted at the connection level only
Minimum required account type permission: Create input tables or Upload CSV
Can use
The Can use permission allows users to view connection details, explore the data, and use it to build datasets and workbooks.
Permission granularity: Granted at the connection, database, schema, or database table level
Minimum required account type permissions:
View connections to browse the connection
Create, edit, and publish datasets to use the connection as a data source for datasets
Create, edit, and publish workbooks to explore the connection data and use it as a data source for workbook elements
📘
Any user can be granted Can use data permission. However, the extent of access and capabilities depends on each individual user’s account type permissions.
Can use & annotate
The Can use & annotate permission enables all Can use permissions and allows users to annotate database table details. Table annotations include changes that apply in Sigma only (not written to the database).
Permission granularity: Granted at the connection, database, schema, or database table level
Minimum required account type permission: Manage connections or Annotate tables
Can admin
The Can admin permission gives full access to the connection data, including the ability to set data permissions for other users or groups.
Permission granularity: Granted at the connection level only
Minimum required account type permission: Manage connections
Data permissions matrix
The following table indicates user capabilities based on data permission type.
Can write
only Can use Can use &
annotate Can
admin
Write data to the connection’s write-back destination1
Browse connection2
Explore data
Use as data sources for datasets and workbook elements
Edit column details in Sigma3
Manage metrics
Manage links to other sources
Set data permissions
View and manage connection in the Administration portal
1
Create input tables and CSV uploads that write data to the connection’s write-back destination.
2
View underlying database table overviews, column details, metrics, links, and lineage (Sigma datasets and workbooks referencing the database table).
3
Edit the column name in Sigma (“friendly name”), change column visibility, set column format, and add column description.
RELATED RESOURCES
Manage data permissions
User account types
Resources
Sigma home
Blog
Learn
Product FAQs
© 2025 Sigma Computing