Home
Community
QuickStarts
Status
Documentation
API Recipes
API Reference
What's New
Search
START
About Sigma
Start using Sigma
CONNECT
Connect to data sources
Manage connections
ADD DATA
CSV uploads
Input tables
MODEL
Get started with data modeling (Beta)
Data models (Beta)
Model data from database tables
Datasets
Add and manage data
Join data
Transform data
ANALYZE
Workbook basics
Build a workbook
Data elements
Tables
Query
MANAGE WORKBOOKS
Manage a workbook
Workbook templates
Workbook lifecycle
Workbook performance
Workbook security
Manage SQL queries
CHART
Intro to charts
Build a chart
Customize a chart
FILTER
Filter data
Intro to control elements
Work with controls
DESIGN
Design layout
UI elements
Workbook formatting
ADD LOGIC
Intro to actions
Create workbook actions
Configure workbook actions
INTERACT
Interact with workbooks
Interact with charts
Collaborate in workbooks
Search for files in your organization
SHARE
Share a workbook
Share a folder
Share templates
Send or schedule workbook exports
Export data
Manage scheduled exports
About exporting data
CALCULATE
Operators overview
Use AI with formulas (Beta)
Perform AI queries
Functions
Metrics
Custom functions
EMBED
Intro to embedded analytics
Public embedding
Secure embedding
Advanced data security in embeds
Additional embedding configurations
Embed SDK for React
DEVELOP
Sigma API
Plugin development
ADMIN
Administer Sigma
Users and teams
Permissions
Authentication
Third-party integrations
Organization settings
Customize
Localize
Manage assets
Audit and usage
Develop
SUPPORT
Sigma support
Sigma product releases
Supported regions, data platforms, and features
Upload CSV data
Suggest Edits
Upload CSV data to analyze data that isn't stored in a connected data platform.
System and user requirements
The ability to upload CSV data requires the following:
Write access must be enabled for the connection you want to use to upload CSV data.
The CSV upload feature must be enabled for your organization.
You must be assigned an account type with the Upload CSV permission enabled.
Limitations
The maximum file size for uploading a CSV-formatted file is 200MB.
Where's my data stored?
When a CSV file is uploaded to Sigma, the data in the file is automatically written to your data platform as a new table in the schema used for write-back, prepended by sigma_df_csv. If your organization has multiple connections with write access enabled, you can choose which connection to write the data to.
If you upload a CSV file to a workbook, the data in your file is only accessible from the Sigma workbook that uses the CSV file. You cannot see the table created from the CSV upload when browsing the tables in the connection's data catalog. If you delete the workbook, the data from the CSV file is no longer accessible.
💡
To reuse a CSV file in other workbooks, create a data model instead. You can also create a data model from a workbook table element if you already uploaded the file to a workbook.
Create a workbook from a CSV file
Click Create New in the left navigation panel, then select Upload CSV.
The Upload CSV page opens.
Select a Connection from the drop-down menu to specify the cloud data warehouse to upload your file to.
If only one data warehouse has write access enabled, it is selected by default.
Upload your CSV file by dragging and dropping it into the Upload CSV section, or click Browse.
A preview of your data appears.
While previewing your data, you can address any warnings or errors and make other adjustments:
[optional] On the left side of the page, deselect the checkboxes for any columns you want to exclude from the upload.
[optional] Customize the parsing options under Parsing Options.
Click Explore in the top right corner of the page to open the data in a workbook.
Add a CSV file to an existing workbook
If you have an existing workbook, you can add a CSV file as a data element to the workbook.
Before you start: This action is only available in edit mode. To begin editing, click Edit in the top right corner of the page; see Workbook lifecycle.
From within a workbook, select to open the workbook's Add new element panel.
Under Data elements, select the type of element you want to add: Table, Visualization, or Pivot table.
As your data source for the element, select CSV to upload a CSV-formatted file.
Select a Connection from the drop-down menu to specify the cloud data warehouse to upload your file to.
If only one data warehouse has write access enabled, it is selected by default.
Upload your CSV file by dragging and dropping it into the File Upload section, or click Browse.
A preview of your data appears.
While previewing your data, you can address any warnings or errors and optionally customize the parsing options in the Parsing Options section.
Click Done.
Your new element appears on the page, and the editor panel opens to the specific element’s configuration view.
RELATED RESOURCES
Enable CSV Upload
Resources
Sigma home
Blog
Learn
Product FAQs
© 2025 Sigma Computing