Home
Community
QuickStarts
Status
Documentation
API Recipes
API Reference
What's New
Search
START
About Sigma
Start using Sigma
CONNECT
Connect to data sources
Manage connections
ADD DATA
CSV uploads
Input tables
MODEL
Get started with data modeling (Beta)
Data models (Beta)
Model data from database tables
Datasets
Add and manage data
Join data
Transform data
ANALYZE
Workbook basics
Build a workbook
Data elements
Tables
Query
MANAGE WORKBOOKS
Manage a workbook
Workbook templates
Workbook lifecycle
Workbook performance
Workbook security
Manage SQL queries
CHART
Intro to charts
Build a chart
Customize a chart
FILTER
Filter data
Intro to control elements
Work with controls
DESIGN
Design layout
UI elements
Workbook formatting
ADD LOGIC
Intro to actions
Create workbook actions
Configure workbook actions
INTERACT
Interact with workbooks
Interact with charts
Collaborate in workbooks
Search for files in your organization
SHARE
Share a workbook
Share a folder
Share templates
Send or schedule workbook exports
Export data
Manage scheduled exports
About exporting data
CALCULATE
Operators overview
Use AI with formulas (Beta)
Perform AI queries
Functions
Metrics
Custom functions
EMBED
Intro to embedded analytics
Public embedding
Secure embedding
Advanced data security in embeds
Additional embedding configurations
Embed SDK for React
DEVELOP
Sigma API
Plugin development
ADMIN
Administer Sigma
Users and teams
Permissions
Authentication
Third-party integrations
Organization settings
Customize
Localize
Manage assets
Audit and usage
Develop
SUPPORT
Sigma support
Sigma product releases
Supported regions, data platforms, and features
Create and manage workbook warehouse views
Suggest Edits
Warehouse views are virtual tables saved to your data platform. You can create warehouse views from tables, pivot tables, input tables, and visualizations, then query them using Sigma or any other application in your data ecosystem. This simplifies queries and allows you to retrieve relevant and up-to-date subsets of data directly from your database.
This document explains how to create and manage workbook warehouse views in Sigma. For information about the Warehouse Views page in the Administration portal, see Review warehouse view details.
📘
This feature isn't supported by all data platform connections. To check if your connection supports it, see Supported data platforms and feature compatibility.
System and user requirements
The ability to create and manage a workbook warehouse view requires the following:
The element’s data source (for example, a dataset or connection table) must retrieve data from a connection with Write access enabled.
You must be assigned an account type with the Create warehouse views permission enabled.
You must be the workbook owner or be granted Can edit workbook permission.
About warehouse views
Instead of storing data in a database table, a warehouse view saves a SQL statement that expresses specific query logic defined by an individual data element or input table in Sigma.
When you create a warehouse view, you establish a live link between your data platform and Sigma. The view references the data element or input table as the source of truth and automatically updates to reflect the most recent version of the element’s underlying data.
Warehouse view considerations
When you create a warehouse view, consider the following:
Sigma creates warehouse views based on element data saved to a workbook's published version only. If a view is created in the workbook's draft version, one of the following outcomes occur:
If the element only exists in the workbook's draft, Sigma creates the view when the workbook is published and the element exists in the published version.
If the element exists in the workbook's published version but contains unsaved changes in the draft, Sigma creates the view based on the published version of the element. This might not align with the data in the draft.
If the element exists in the workbook's published version and contains no unsaved changes in the draft, Sigma creates a view based on the published version of the element, which matches with the data in the draft.
Due to the nature of warehouse views, the following dynamic conditions aren't supported:
Parameters: Parameters aren't explicitly defined in an element's SQL statement because the query depends on user input. When parameters are applied, Sigma dynamically generates the SQL at the time it executes the query. Therefore, there's no predefined SQL statement to save as a warehouse view.
Relative date filters: Relative date filters (like Last, Next, and Current) depend on current date criteria that cannot be explicitly defined in an element's SQL statement. Therefore, they are not saved to warehouse views.
Create a view
Open a published workbook in any mode and locate the element for which you want to create a warehouse view.
In the element toolbar, click More to open the element menu, then select Advanced options > Create warehouse view.
In the Create Warehouse View modal, Sigma auto-generates a name for the view. If needed, edit the name, then click Create.
This name is also used when saving your view in the data platform.
Sigma notifies you when it successfully creates the view (see Warehouse view statuses). You can also preview the status in the element toolbar or click View warehouse view info to see details about the view.
📘
After Sigma creates the view, filters and any other changes applied to the element are only saved to the view when the workbook is republished.
Rename a view
Open a workbook in any mode and locate the element associated with the warehouse view you want to rename.
In the element toolbar, click More to open the element menu, then select Advanced options > Manage warehouse view.
In the Manage Warehouse View modal, enter a new name in the Name field, then click Update. The warehouse view name and path update.
Sigma notifies you when the view is successfully updated (see Warehouse view statuses). You can also preview the status in the element toolbar or click View warehouse view info to see details about the view.
Delete a view
Open a workbook in any mode and locate the element associated with the warehouse view you want to delete.
In the element toolbar, click More to open the element menu, then select Advanced options > Manage warehouse view.
In the Manage Warehouse View modal, click Delete.
In the Confirm Delete modal, click Delete.
Warehouse view statuses
The following statuses apply to warehouse views:
Pending Sigma will create or update the view when the workbook is published.
Successful Sigma successfully created or updated the view.
In Progress Sigma is currently creating or updating the view.
Failed The view couldn’t be created or updated.1
1
To view the cause of a failed status, hover over the Failed status indicator in the warehouse view details.
Frequently asked questions
Can I create multiple warehouse views for one element in the same or different workbook versions?

Can I create a warehouse view for a materialized element?
Are warehouse view configurations saved in the workbook version history?
Can a warehouse view be defined by a grouping level?
Why am I unable to create a warehouse view for my element?
RELATED RESOURCES
Review warehouse view details
Dataset Warehouse Views
Resources
Sigma home
Blog
Learn
Product FAQs
© 2025 Sigma Computing