Home
Community
QuickStarts
Status
Documentation
API Recipes
API Reference
What's New
Search
START
About Sigma
Start using Sigma
CONNECT
Connect to data sources
Manage connections
ADD DATA
CSV uploads
Input tables
MODEL
Get started with data modeling (Beta)
Data models (Beta)
Model data from database tables
Datasets
Add and manage data
Join data
Transform data
ANALYZE
Workbook basics
Build a workbook
Data elements
Tables
Query
MANAGE WORKBOOKS
Manage a workbook
Workbook templates
Workbook lifecycle
Workbook performance
Workbook security
Manage SQL queries
CHART
Intro to charts
Build a chart
Customize a chart
FILTER
Filter data
Intro to control elements
Work with controls
DESIGN
Design layout
UI elements
Workbook formatting
ADD LOGIC
Intro to actions
Create workbook actions
Configure workbook actions
INTERACT
Interact with workbooks
Interact with charts
Collaborate in workbooks
Search for files in your organization
SHARE
Share a workbook
Share a folder
Share templates
Send or schedule workbook exports
Export data
Manage scheduled exports
About exporting data
CALCULATE
Operators overview
Use AI with formulas (Beta)
Perform AI queries
Functions
Metrics
Custom functions
EMBED
Intro to embedded analytics
Public embedding
Secure embedding
Advanced data security in embeds
Additional embedding configurations
Embed SDK for React
DEVELOP
Sigma API
Plugin development
ADMIN
Administer Sigma
Users and teams
Permissions
Authentication
Third-party integrations
Organization settings
Customize
Localize
Manage assets
Audit and usage
Develop
SUPPORT
Sigma support
Sigma product releases
Supported regions, data platforms, and features
Create actions that manage control values
Suggest Edits
Workbooks support actions that set or clear values of specific control elements, enabling interacting users to quickly filter and unfilter data for different focused views.
This document explains how to create actions that manage control values. For more information about actions in Sigma, see Intro to actions.
User requirements
📘
The following requirements apply to users who configure actions. Users who access and interact with a workbook can typically trigger all existing actions within it. Any restrictions are noted in this document.
The ability to configure actions requires the following:
You must be assigned an account type with the Full explore or Create, edit, and publish workbooks permission enabled.
You must be the workbook owner or be granted Can explore1 or Can edit workbook permission.
1
If you’re granted Can explore workbook permission, you can configure actions but cannot save changes to the workbook’s published version.
Set a control value
Create an action that sets the value of a specific control element in the current workbook.
Open a workbook in Explore or Edit mode.
Select the trigger element (the element users must interact with to initiate the action), then click Actions in the side navigation.
In the Actions panel, click Add action in an existing sequence, or click Add action sequence to create a new one.
In the Action modal, configure the required fields to define the response:
Action Select Set control value.
Update control Select a control element to update in the current workbook.
Set value as
Select an option to determine the type of value Sigma passes to the control, then define the value.
Specific values: Passes the specified (fixed) value.
Values from a column: Passes values from the specified column in the trigger element’s underlying data (if applicable).
Only available when the trigger element is a table, pivot table, input table, or visualization.
Custom formula: Passes a value based on the defined formula.
If the trigger element is a table, pivot table, or input table, configure additional settings that determine when and how user interaction triggers the action sequence:
To trigger the action sequence only when a user selects a cell in a specific column, click the dropdown following the On select heading and select the column. To trigger the action sequence when a user selects a cell in any column, select Any column.
[optional] To control whether keyboard navigation within the element can trigger action sequences on the element, click More in the Actions panel, then select Allow keyboard to trigger actions. When the option displays a checkmark, keyboard navigation and pointer events (e.g., mouse clicks) can trigger the action sequences. When the option doesn't display a checkmark (default), only pointer events can trigger them.
💡
Keyboard navigation as a trigger interaction can disrupt the user experience. For example, if the element's action sequences include actions that open links or other workbooks, a user can be unintentionally navigated away from their current task. This can be particularly disruptive if the action sequence can be triggered by selecting a cell in any column.
Consider allowing keyboard navigation to trigger actions only when it facilitates the configured action sequences and is unlikely to interfere with usability.
[optional] To execute the action sequence only when a specific condition is met, click More in the action sequence, then select Add condition and configure the criteria. For more information about conditions, see Define an action condition.
Clear one or more control values
Create an action that clears the values of one or more control elements in the current workbook.
Open a workbook in Explore or Edit mode.
Select the trigger element (the element users must interact with to initiate the action), then click Actions in the side navigation.
In the Actions panel, click Add action in an existing sequence, or click Add action sequence to create a new one.
In the Action modal, configure the required fields to define the response:
Action Select Clear control.
Apply to Select the scope for the action. You can clear controls at these levels of granularity: Specific control, Container, Page, or Entire workbook.
Control, Container, or Page If you selected Specific control, Container, or Page in the Apply to field, specify the target from the dropdown list.
Reset to published value [optional] Check this box to reset the control values to the last published values. On a tagged version of a workbook, this setting resets to the tagged version's values.
If the trigger element is a table, pivot table, or input table, configure additional settings that determine when and how user interaction triggers the action sequence:
To trigger the action sequence only when a user selects a cell in a specific column, click the dropdown following the On select heading and select the column. To trigger the action sequence when a user selects a cell in any column, select Any column.
[optional] To control whether keyboard navigation within the element can trigger action sequences on the element, click More in the Actions panel, then select Allow keyboard to trigger actions. When the option displays a checkmark, keyboard navigation and pointer events (e.g., mouse clicks) can trigger the action sequences. When the option doesn't display a checkmark (default), only pointer events can trigger them.
💡
Keyboard navigation as a trigger interaction can disrupt the user experience. For example, if the element's action sequences include actions that open links or other workbooks, a user can be unintentionally navigated away from their current task. This can be particularly disruptive if the action sequence can be triggered by selecting a cell in any column.
Consider allowing keyboard navigation to trigger actions only when it facilitates the configured action sequences and is unlikely to interfere with usability.
[optional] To execute the action sequence only when a specific condition is met, click More in the action sequence, then select Add condition and configure the criteria. For more information about conditions, see Define an action condition.
RELATED RESOURCES
Intro to actions
View and manage existing actions
Resources
Sigma home
Blog
Learn
Product FAQs
© 2025 Sigma Computing