Home
Community
QuickStarts
Status
Documentation
API Recipes
API Reference
What's New
Search
CTRL-K
START
About Sigma
Start using Sigma
CONNECT
Connect to data sources
Manage connections
ADD DATA
CSV uploads
Input tables
MODEL
Get started with data modeling (Beta)
Data models (Beta)
Model data from database tables
Datasets
Add and manage data
Join data
Transform data
ANALYZE
Workbook basics
Build a workbook
Data elements
Tables
Query
MANAGE WORKBOOKS
Manage a workbook
Workbook templates
Workbook lifecycle
Workbook performance
Workbook security
Manage SQL queries
CHART
Intro to charts
Build a chart
Customize a chart
FILTER
Filter data
Intro to control elements
Work with controls
DESIGN
Design layout
UI elements
Workbook formatting
ADD LOGIC
Intro to actions
Create workbook actions
Create actions that navigate to destinations
Create actions that manage control values
Create actions that modify or refresh elements
Create actions that modify input table data
Create actions that download and export data
Create cross-element filters
Create actions that trigger embed iframe events
Configure workbook actions
INTERACT
Interact with workbooks
Interact with charts
Collaborate in workbooks
Search for files in your organization
SHARE
Share a workbook
Share a folder
Share templates
Send or schedule workbook exports
Export data
Manage scheduled exports
About exporting data
CALCULATE
Operators overview
Use AI with formulas (Beta)
Perform AI queries
Functions
Metrics
Custom functions
EMBED
Intro to embedded analytics
Public embedding
Secure embedding
Advanced data security in embeds
Additional embedding configurations
Embed SDK for React
DEVELOP
Sigma API
Plugin development
ADMIN
Administer Sigma
Users and teams
Permissions
Authentication
Third-party integrations
Organization settings
Customize
Localize
Manage assets
Audit and usage
Develop
SUPPORT
Sigma support
Sigma product releases
Supported regions, data platforms, and features
Create cross-element filters
Suggest Edits
Actions support dynamic cross-element filtering, which enables user interactions with one element to filter the data of other elements in the same workbook. For example, when a user clicks a data point in one chart (the trigger element), Sigma automatically applies a filter to another chart (the target element) using the dimension value of the clicked data point.
This document explains how to configure cross-element filtering using control elements and actions. For more information about actions, see Intro to actions.
User requirements
The ability to configure cross-element filtering for workbook elements requires the following:
You must be assigned an account type with the Explore workbooks or Create, edit, and publish workbooks permission enabled.
You must be the workbook owner or be granted Can explore or Can edit workbook permission.
📘
These requirements only apply to users who configure cross-element filters. Configured cross-element filters are applied to the interactions of any user who can view the workbook.
Configure a cross-element filter
In Sigma, a cross-element filter consists of at least three workbook elements: a trigger element, a control element, and a target element.
The trigger element in a cross-element filter is typically a table, pivot table, input table, or visualization. When a user interacts with the trigger element by clicking a table cell in a specific column or any data point on the chart, a workbook action (configured on the trigger element) updates the value of the control element, which subsequently filters the target element.
To configure this cross-element interactivity, you must complete the following:
Create a control that filters the target element
Create a workbook action to set the control value
💡
The workflows demonstrated in this document are used to configure a cross-element filter for a single dimension on one target element.
To filter multiple dimensions on the same target element, create a separate control and action for each dimension.
To filter a single dimension on multiple target elements, create one control, then add all target elements as filter targets in the control element properties.
To filter multiple dimensions on multiple target elements, create a separate control and action for each dimension, then add all target elements as filter targets in each control element’s properties.
Create a control that filters the target element
The following steps explain how to create an element filter and quickly convert it to a preconfigured list or date control element. If you want to filter the target element using a different control type, see Intro to control elements for information about creating a new control from the ground up.
Open a workbook in Explore or Edit mode and add at least one trigger element and one target element.
Hover over or select the target element and click Filters in the element menu.
In the Filters & controls modal, create a filter and convert it to a control element:
Click Add filter, then select the underlying data column you want to filter. You don’t need to choose filter values at this time.
Click More to open the filter menu, then select Convert to page control.
Sigma adds a preconfigured control element that aligns with the filter you converted. The control’s value source, source column, and filter target are automatically set to filter the target element.
Create a workbook action to set the control value
The following steps explain how to configure a workbook action on the trigger element to set the value of the control element created in the previous section.
Select the trigger element, then click Actions in the side navigation.
In the Actions panel, click Add action.
In the On cell click or On click modal (depending on the trigger element type), configure the workbook action to define the response:
If the trigger element is a table, pivot table, or input table, select a column in the When clicking cells in field. Sigma only initiates the cross-element filter when a user clicks a cell in this column.
If the trigger element is a visualization, button, image, or control, skip this step and proceed to step 3b.
[optional] Configure a condition that should be met for the action sequence to take effect. To add a condition, click More, then click Add condition.
Configure the remaining fields based on the type of response you want to initiate:
Action
Select Set control value.
This particular action type enables the cross-element filter.
Update control value
Select the control element created in the previous section, Create a control that filters the target element.
Sigma sets the value of this specific control, which is preconfigured to filter the target element.
Set value as
Option 1: Select Specific values to always set the control to one or more fixed values, then choose the values.
Option 2: Select Values from a specific column to set the control to a value from a particular column, then choose the column. The control is dynamically set based on the column value from the same row as the clicked cell or data point.
For the cross-element filter to function correctly, the selected values or column must align with the values in the control element’s filter target. The filter target is configured in the control’s Element properties > Targets tab and is the column selected in step 3a of the previous section, Create a control that filters the target element.
With the workbook action configured, user interaction with the trigger element initiates a workflow that immediately updates the control value and filters the target element. For a real-time demonstration of this cross-element filter, see the interactive demo.
Interactive demo
In the following embedded example, click any slice in the pie chart to set the State control value and filter the map by state. You can then drill into the population data by state county.
💡
When the trigger element is a visualization, the cross-element filter also supports the following interactions:
To set multiple control values, hold ⌘ Command (Mac OS) or Ctrl (Windows) while clicking data points (for example, pie slices) in the chart.
To clear the selection in the trigger element and reset the control value and filter, click any blank space in the trigger element.
When the trigger element is a table, pivot table, or input table, you cannot set multiple control values. If you select multiple cells, the last cell you click determines the control value.
RELATED RESOURCES
Intro to actions
Create actions that navigate to destinations
Create actions that manage control values
Create actions that modify or refresh elements
Create actions that download and export data
View and manage existing actions
Did this page help you?
Yes
No
Resources
Sigma home
Blog
Learn
Product FAQs
© 2025 Sigma Computing