Home
Community
QuickStarts
Status
Documentation
API Recipes
API Reference
What's New
Search
START
About Sigma
Start using Sigma
CONNECT
Connect to data sources
Manage connections
ADD DATA
CSV uploads
Input tables
MODEL
Get started with data modeling (Beta)
Data models (Beta)
Model data from database tables
Datasets
Add and manage data
Join data
Transform data
ANALYZE
Workbook basics
Build a workbook
Data elements
Tables
Query
MANAGE WORKBOOKS
Manage a workbook
Workbook templates
Workbook lifecycle
Workbook performance
Workbook security
Manage SQL queries
CHART
Intro to charts
Build a chart
Customize a chart
FILTER
Filter data
Intro to control elements
Work with controls
DESIGN
Design layout
UI elements
Workbook formatting
ADD LOGIC
Intro to actions
Create workbook actions
Configure workbook actions
INTERACT
Interact with workbooks
Interact with charts
Collaborate in workbooks
Search for files in your organization
SHARE
Share a workbook
Share a folder
Share templates
Send or schedule workbook exports
Export data
Manage scheduled exports
About exporting data
CALCULATE
Operators overview
Use AI with formulas (Beta)
Perform AI queries
Functions
Metrics
Custom functions
EMBED
Intro to embedded analytics
Public embedding
Secure embedding
Advanced data security in embeds
Additional embedding configurations
Embed SDK for React
DEVELOP
Sigma API
Plugin development
ADMIN
Administer Sigma
Users and teams
Permissions
Authentication
Third-party integrations
Organization settings
Customize
Localize
Manage assets
Audit and usage
Develop
SUPPORT
Sigma support
Sigma product releases
Supported regions, data platforms, and features
Manage workspaces
Suggest Edits
Use workspaces to categorize and share folders and documents. Share them with users and teams using permission grants.
Organization admins manage all workspaces within their organization.
Both admin and non-admin users can access their assigned workspaces from the left hand panel in the homepage. Admins also have access to an additional All workspaces tab.
Create a workspace
There are two ways for organization admins to create workspaces.
Option A: create a workspace directly from the workspace list page.
On your homepage’s navigation panel, click Workspaces to open the Workspace page.
Click Create Workspace in the top right of the screen.
Name your workspace.
Type to add teams and/or members.
For each team or member, select a permission type.
[optional] Enter an email notification under Add a Message or uncheck Send an email notification.
Click Save.
OR
Option B: create a workspace by creating a team and selecting to create a workspace for that team.
Share a workspace
Permission grants on a workspace are hereditary; sharing a workspace will share everything inside of that workspace at the same level as the original grant. There are two possible ways to share a workspace.
Share from within the workspace
Open the workspace.
Click the Share button located in the top right corner of the screen, to open the share modal.
Type to add teams and/or individual members.
Select a permission type for each team and/or member.
[optional] Enter an email notification under Add a Message or uncheck Send an email notification.
Click Save.
Share from the workspace list
On your homepage’s navigation panel, click Workspaces to open the Workspace page.
Click More next to the workspace you wish to share.
Click Share to open the share modal.
Type to add teams and/or individual members.
Select a permission type for each team and/or member.
[optional] Enter an email notification under Add a Message or uncheck Send an email notification.
Click Save.
Modify or revoke access to a workspace
Open the workspace’s Share modal either by clicking More on the Workspace page or from the Share button on the individual workspace’s page.
Click to open the Who has Access tab.
[optional] To select a new access/grant type, use the Access Type dropdown menu to the right of the team or member.
[optional] To revoke access completely, hover over the team or member. Then click the trash can icon that appears on the right side of the modal.
Click Save.
Delete a workspace
When a workspace is deleted, any child folders or documents will be automatically moved into a folder in the deleter’s My Documents.
On your homepage’s navigation panel, click Workspaces to open the Workspace page.
Click More next to the workspace you wish to share.
Click Delete.
This will open the Confirm Deletion modal. Click Delete to confirm.
The organization level workspace
Every new organization is provided an organizational-level workspace by default. This workspace is accessible to all organization members.
Organization admins have the option to delete or restrict access to this workspace. Although this workspace was added by default, all management of the workspace can be conducted like any other workspace.
Understanding teams and workspaces
Teams and workspaces have a many-to-many relationship. A team can be granted different levels of access to different workspaces, and multiple teams can be granted different levels of access to a single workspace.
This flexibility allows the structure of workspaces to be organization-dependent. For example, an organization might have a workspace for each of its teams. In addition, it might also have workspaces for each quarter of the year, shared with the relevant teams.
RELATED RESOURCES
Folder and Document Permissions
Data permissions overview
Resources
Sigma home
Blog
Learn
Product FAQs
© 2025 Sigma Computing