Home
Community
QuickStarts
Status
Documentation
API Recipes
API Reference
What's New
Search
START
About Sigma
Start using Sigma
CONNECT
Connect to data sources
Manage connections
ADD DATA
CSV uploads
Input tables
MODEL
Get started with data modeling (Beta)
Data models (Beta)
Model data from database tables
Datasets
Add and manage data
Join data
Transform data
ANALYZE
Workbook basics
Build a workbook
Data elements
Tables
Query
MANAGE WORKBOOKS
Manage a workbook
Workbook templates
Workbook lifecycle
Workbook performance
Workbook security
Manage SQL queries
CHART
Intro to charts
Build a chart
Customize a chart
FILTER
Filter data
Intro to control elements
Work with controls
DESIGN
Design layout
UI elements
Workbook formatting
ADD LOGIC
Intro to actions
Create workbook actions
Configure workbook actions
INTERACT
Interact with workbooks
Interact with charts
Collaborate in workbooks
Search for files in your organization
SHARE
Share a workbook
Share a folder
Share templates
Send or schedule workbook exports
Export data
Manage scheduled exports
About exporting data
CALCULATE
Operators overview
Use AI with formulas (Beta)
Perform AI queries
Functions
Metrics
Custom functions
EMBED
Intro to embedded analytics
Public embedding
Secure embedding
Advanced data security in embeds
Additional embedding configurations
Embed SDK for React
DEVELOP
Sigma API
Plugin development
ADMIN
Administer Sigma
Users and teams
Permissions
Authentication
Third-party integrations
Organization settings
Customize
Localize
Manage assets
Audit and usage
Develop
SUPPORT
Sigma support
Sigma product releases
Supported regions, data platforms, and features
Generate embed client credentials
Suggest Edits
Client credentials (a unique client ID and embed secret) are crucial to creating secure embeds. The embed secret is encoded within the secure embed URL for additional validation that ensures the embed's authenticity and security.
This document explains how to generate the embed client credentials in Sigma.
System and user requirements
The ability to generate embed client credentials requires the following:
Secure embedding must be enabled for your organization. If the feature is disabled, contact Support or reach out to your Account Executive.
You must be assigned the Admin account type.
Understanding the embed credentials
Sigma uses the client ID to determine which embed secret is referenced in a request. Each time a request is made, the server-side embed API uses the embed secret to generate an encrypted signature.
Together, the client ID and embed secret create a robust security framework for server-side interactions with Sigma.
Authentication: The credentials authenticate your server and verify its identity to Sigma, confirming it as a recognized and authorized entity with valid access rights.
Authorization: Based on the authentication, Sigma can control access to its resources and only allow requests from authorized entities to process further.
Data integrity and non-repudiation: The embed secret's encrypted signature enhances trust by ensuring the request data remains unaltered.
Confidentiality: Use of the credentials in server-side API interactions secures sensitive data and operations by maintaining confidentiality and providing protection against unauthorized access or manipulation.
🚧
For security purposes, Sigma provides a one-time view of the embed secret at the time of creation and does not display it again. Because the secret is non-retrievable, it's important that you store the secret securely when you create it.
If you lose the embed secret, or it becomes compromised, you can revoke it and generate a new one; however, this invalidates the previous secret and all embeds that use it. When a new secret is generated, you must modify the embed API and update all existing embeds.
Generate embed client credentials
Go to Administration > Developer Access:
In the Sigma header, click your user avatar to open the user menu.
Select Administration to open the Administration portal.
In the side panel, select Developer Access.
Click Create New to set up new credentials.
In the Create client credentials modal, complete the form fields:
In the Select privileges section, select the Embedding checkbox.
In the Name field, enter a unique name to identify the credentials.
[optional] In the Description field, enter a description about the purpose of the credentials.
In the Owner field, select an organization member. The embed secret uses the account type permissions associated with this user.
Click Create to generate the credentials.
In the Access Credentials modal, copy the embed secret and securely store it for future reference (you cannot retrieve it in Sigma later).
You can also copy and securely store the client ID from the modal, but this information can be retrieved from the Developer Access page at any time.
Revoke existing embed client credentials
If you lose the embed secret, or it becomes compromised, you can revoke it and generate a new one.
Go to Administration > Developer Access:
In the Sigma header, click your user avatar to open the user menu.
Select Administration to open the Administration portal.
In the side panel, select Developer Access.
In the list of credentials, locate the one you want to regenerate, then click More and select Revoke.
Complete the steps in Generate embed client credentials to generate new credentials.
Update any applications using the embed API containing the revoked credentials.
Resources
Sigma home
Blog
Learn
Product FAQs
© 2025 Sigma Computing