Explain charts with AI (Beta)
Suggest Edits
🚩
This documentation describes a public beta feature and is under construction. This documentation should not be considered part of our published documentation until this notice, and the corresponding Beta flag on the feature in the Sigma service, are removed. As with any beta feature, the feature discussed below is subject to quick, iterative changes. The latest experience in the Sigma service might differ from the contents of this document.
Beta features are subject to the Beta features disclaimer.
The Explain this chart feature uses AI to instantly generate a description of any chart. Details can include key insights, observations, data distribution summaries, and other context that can enhance your understanding of visualized data and help drive informed decisions.
This document introduces AI-generated explanations for charts and explains how to access and utilize the feature.
🚩
The use of AI features is subject to the following disclaimer.
System and user requirements
The ability to explain a chart with AI requires the following:
The OpenAI integration must be configured for your organization.
If using Azure OpenAI, the GPT-4 Turbo with Vision model (gpt-4-turbo-2024-04-09) must be configured in the OpenAI integration.
You must be assigned an account type with the Use AI features permission enabled.
About AI-generated explanations
When you use the Explain this chart feature, Sigma captures a snapshot of the chart and passes this image, along with the chart’s underlying data, to your OpenAI model. The model then processes the information and analyzes the context to generate an explanation of the data visualized by the chart. Sigma presents this explanation and allows you to provide feedback about the results, which can be used to improve future responses.
For information about how your data is secured and stored when using AI features, see Frequently asked questions in Manage OpenAI integration.
Explain a chart
Open a workbook.
Hover over or select the chart that you want to explain.
In the element toolbar, click More to open the element menu, then select Explain this chart.
The Explain modal displays the explanation in real time, as it's generated. Utilize or interact with the results as needed:
Click Copy text, then save or share the results (for example, paste it into a text element to supplement the chart).
Click Helpful or Not helpful and submit additional details to help improve future responses.