Text functions
Suggest Edits
Text functions evaluate or manipulate string data to perform operations like text modification, formatting, and extraction.
Concat Combines multiple strings into a single text value.
Contains Searches for a specified substring in a text value. If the substring is found, the function returns True, otherwise it returns False.
EndsWith Determines if a text value ends with a specified substring. If the substring is found at the end of the text value, the function returns True, otherwise it returns False.
Find Returns the index where it first finds the specified substring within a string. Returns 0 if not found.
ILike Returns True if the string matches the pattern. Case insensitive.
Left Returns the left portion of the string (the beginning), up to specified number of characters.
Len Returns the number of characters in a string, including spaces.
Like Returns True if the string value matches the pattern. Case sensitive.
LPad Sets the string to a desired length by adding or removing characters at the front. Uses an optional fill character or defaults to extra spaces.
Lower Converts a string to all lower case.
LTrim Removes leading spaces from a string.
MD5 Calculates the hash value of a string for the MD5 message-digest algorithm (hashing function).
Mid Returns a substring from a string, defined by offset and length. Same as Substring.
Proper Converts text to proper case, capitalizing the first letter of each word.
RegexpExtract Returns the substring that matches a regular expression within a string.
RegexpMatch Returns True if a string matches a regular expression.
RegexpReplace Returns a string for a pattern and replaces it with a specified string.
Repeat Returns the result of repeating the string a specified number of times.
Replace Replaces every instance of a specified string with a replacement string.
Reverse Reverses the order of characters in a string.
Right Returns the right portion of a string (the end), up to the specified number of characters.
RPad Sets the string to a desired length by adding or removing characters at the end. Uses an optional fill character, or defaults to extra spaces.
RTrim Removes trailing spaces from the end of a string.
SHA256 Transforms text input into a 256-bit hash value.
SplitPart Splits the string into multiple parts at the positions of each appearance of the delimiter and returns the nth part of the string at the specified position.
StartsWith Determines if a string starts with the specified substring. Returns True or False.
Substring Returns a substring from a string, defined by offset and length. Same as Mid.
Trim Removes both leading and trailing spaces from a string.
Upper Converts a string to upper case (all capital letters).