Home
Community
QuickStarts
Status
Documentation
API Recipes
API Reference
What's New
Search
START
About Sigma
Start using Sigma
CONNECT
Connect to data sources
Manage connections
ADD DATA
CSV uploads
Input tables
MODEL
Get started with data modeling (Beta)
Data models (Beta)
Model data from database tables
Datasets
Add and manage data
Join data
Transform data
ANALYZE
Workbook basics
Build a workbook
Data elements
Tables
Query
MANAGE WORKBOOKS
Manage a workbook
Workbook templates
Workbook lifecycle
Workbook performance
Workbook security
Manage SQL queries
CHART
Intro to charts
Build a chart
Customize a chart
FILTER
Filter data
Intro to control elements
Work with controls
DESIGN
Design layout
UI elements
Workbook formatting
ADD LOGIC
Intro to actions
Create workbook actions
Configure workbook actions
INTERACT
Interact with workbooks
Interact with charts
Collaborate in workbooks
Search for files in your organization
SHARE
Share a workbook
Share a folder
Share templates
Send or schedule workbook exports
Export data
Manage scheduled exports
About exporting data
CALCULATE
Operators overview
Use AI with formulas (Beta)
Perform AI queries
Functions
Metrics
Custom functions
EMBED
Intro to embedded analytics
Public embedding
Secure embedding
Advanced data security in embeds
Additional embedding configurations
Embed SDK for React
DEVELOP
Sigma API
Plugin development
ADMIN
Administer Sigma
Users and teams
Permissions
Authentication
Third-party integrations
Organization settings
Customize
Localize
Manage assets
Audit and usage
Develop
SUPPORT
Sigma support
Sigma product releases
Supported regions, data platforms, and features
Administer Sigma
Suggest Edits
If you are a Sigma admin, you can configure and customize your Sigma organization in the Administration portal.
To access the Administration portal:
Go to Home and select the user icon with your initials.
Select Administration.
Requirements
Users assigned the Admin account type can access and edit all configurations in the Administration portal.
Other users might have access to specific sections of the Administration portal, depending on the permissions enabled on their assigned account type:
Permissions in the Usage dashboard section grant access to usage dashboards in the Usage page.
Manage all branding settings grants access to manage all branding settings, including setting up a custom SMTP server.
Manage all workbook themes and fonts grants access to specific branding functionality, such as setting up workbook themes.
Manage plugins grants access to manage plugins.
Common administration tasks
Onboard users and configure role-based access management and authentication methods:
Manage users and teams: Onboard new users by inviting new users and creating teams. Simplify management by setting up team admins.
Configure permissions and access: Customize account types and assign them to users. Configure the permissions enabled for each account type, and understand how account type permissions interact with document access and data permissions.
Set up authentication methods: Set up SAML or OAuth authentication methods, or centralize team and user management by configuring SCIM.
Set up third-party integrations with Sigma, and manage additional organization settings:
Integrate Sigma with third-party tools: Set up and manage integrations with OpenAI to use AI features, exports using Slack, and dbt to use dbt jobs, metadata, and Semantic Layer.
Configure Sigma functionality: Organization admins can exercise fine-grained control over some of the functionality that users can access. Disable or restrict functionality like public embeds, workbook comments, account upgrade requests, CSV uploads, and others.
Customize your Sigma organization to fit your branding and locale:
Customize and configure branding: Ensure your charts and workbooks align with your company branding. You can customize fonts and set up workbook themes with standardized color palettes. Customize the Sigma experience by adding a custom homepage and configuring email branding.
Localize organization settings: Provide users in your Sigma organization with content in their preferred language and locale, including timezone, currency, and date format. Set up a time zone for your account and set up a locale or translation files for your organization.
Monitor and audit user activity in Sigma:
Monitor Sigma usage: Understand how users in your organization use different Sigma features by reviewing different usage dashboards, such as scheduled exports, materialization, or document activity.
Audit activities in Sigma: If audit logging is enabled, review the audit logs for your organization.
Extend Sigma functionality:
Develop and test plugins: Enable developers in your organization to register plugins.
Create custom functions: Abstract complex calculations into custom functions that you can share with your organization.
Resources
Sigma home
Blog
Learn
Product FAQs
© 2025 Sigma Computing