Home
Community
QuickStarts
Status
Documentation
API Recipes
API Reference
What's New
Search
START
About Sigma
Start using Sigma
CONNECT
Connect to data sources
Manage connections
ADD DATA
CSV uploads
Input tables
MODEL
Get started with data modeling (Beta)
Data models (Beta)
Model data from database tables
Datasets
Add and manage data
Join data
Transform data
ANALYZE
Workbook basics
Build a workbook
Data elements
Tables
Query
MANAGE WORKBOOKS
Manage a workbook
Workbook templates
Workbook lifecycle
Workbook performance
Workbook security
Manage SQL queries
CHART
Intro to charts
Build a chart
Customize a chart
FILTER
Filter data
Intro to control elements
Work with controls
DESIGN
Design layout
UI elements
Workbook formatting
ADD LOGIC
Intro to actions
Create workbook actions
Configure workbook actions
INTERACT
Interact with workbooks
Interact with charts
Collaborate in workbooks
Search for files in your organization
SHARE
Share a workbook
Share a folder
Share templates
Send or schedule workbook exports
Export data
Manage scheduled exports
About exporting data
CALCULATE
Operators overview
Use AI with formulas (Beta)
Perform AI queries
Functions
Metrics
Custom functions
EMBED
Intro to embedded analytics
Public embedding
Secure embedding
Advanced data security in embeds
Additional embedding configurations
Embed SDK for React
DEVELOP
Sigma API
Plugin development
ADMIN
Administer Sigma
Users and teams
Permissions
Authentication
Third-party integrations
Organization settings
Customize
Localize
Manage assets
Audit and usage
Develop
SUPPORT
Sigma support
Sigma product releases
Supported regions, data platforms, and features
Query a dbt Semantic Layer integration (Beta)
Suggest Edits
🚩
This documentation describes a private beta feature and is under construction. This documentation should not be considered part of our published documentation until this notice, and the corresponding Beta flag on the feature in the Sigma service, is removed. As with any beta feature, the feature described below is subject to quick, iterative changes. The latest experience in the Sigma service might differ from the contents of this document. Beta features are subject to the Beta features disclaimer.
If you are interested in joining a limited test group and enabling this feature in your Sigma organization, contact Support or reach out to your Account Executive.
Sigma supports dbt Semantic Layer integrations, allowing you to leverage your predefined dbt metrics in Sigma workbooks for ad-hoc analysis, recurring reports, and organizational dashboards. This document explains how to query a dbt Semantic Layer in Sigma and how the query flow progresses.
System and user requirements
In Sigma:
To use this feature, you must be assigned an account type with the permission to write custom SQL.
You must have the Can use data permission for your entire connection. See Manage data permissions.
You must have write access configured on your connection. See Set up write access.
You must have a dbt Semantic Layer integration configured. See Configure a dbt Semantic Layer integration.
In dbt:
You must have a semantic model and metrics created in dbt. See the dbt documentation on dbt Semantic Layer.
Query flow between Sigma and dbt Semantic Layer
When you enter a Semantic Layer query in Sigma, Sigma compiles your query into an intermediate representation and sends the query parameters to the dbt Semantic Layer JDBC API. dbt returns the SQL statement, in the appropriate dialect, to Sigma. Sigma then executes the SQL against your connected database, and outputs a table similar to those from your other data platforms. These tables can be used like any other data table in Sigma. You can reuse them across workbooks and data models, create and join datasets, build visualizations, and more.
Every time a Semantic Layer query is run, Sigma requests the latest definitions so that changes made to the Semantic Layer are reflected in Sigma.
Query the dbt Semantic Layer Integration
To query the Semantic Layer, do the following:
Open a workbook in Explore or Edit mode.
Select Add element, then Table, then Custom SQL.
Enter your query. See dbt’s documentation on Querying the API for metric metadata for query syntax.
Select Run.
Every time a Semantic Layer query is run, Sigma requests the latest definitions, so changes made to the Semantic Layer are reflected in Sigma. Changes made to the Semantic Layer will not be reflected unless a new query is run.
Reference Semantic Layer metrics
You can reference your semantic layer metrics by using the template syntax of {semantic_layer.metrics()}, with the name of your metric in dbt within the parentheses. See the dbt documentation on Querying the API for metric metadata for more syntax guidance.
Example 1: Surface and group dbt metrics in a Sigma workbook
You can surface your existing dbt metrics in a Sigma workbook, and group them by multiple dimensions. An example query might look like:
SQL
SELECT * 
FROM
{{ semantic_layer.query( metrics = ['new_customers', 'transactions', 'revenue_usd'],
group_by = [Dimension('metric_time').grain('month'), 'customer__customer_country'])
}}
The query surfaces three existing metrics ('new_customers', 'transactions', 'revenue_usd') in the example dbt data, and groups them by both country and time (split by month intervals). This query generates the following result in Sigma:
Example 2: Browse Semantic Layer metrics
You can obtain a list of all metrics available in the Semantic Layer in Sigma by running the following custom SQL:
SQL
select * from {{semantic_layer.metrics()}}
This produces a table of metric names and additional details, for example:
Example 3: List all dimensions and time grains for a metric
You may want to obtain a list of all dimensions and time grains available for an existing dbt metric. For example, if you had an existing dbt metric named 'transactions', your query might look like:
SQL
select *  from {{semantic_layer.dimensions(metrics=['transactions'])}}
Running this SQL in Sigma produces the following result:
Limitations
Workbook controls cannot be referenced in Semantic Layer queries. Queries that reference workbook controls result in an error message.
Resources
Sigma home
Blog
Learn
Product FAQs
© 2025 Sigma Computing