Home
Community
QuickStarts
Status
Documentation
API Recipes
API Reference
What's New
Search
START
About Sigma
Start using Sigma
CONNECT
Connect to data sources
Manage connections
ADD DATA
CSV uploads
Input tables
MODEL
Get started with data modeling (Beta)
Data models (Beta)
Model data from database tables
Datasets
Add and manage data
Join data
Transform data
ANALYZE
Workbook basics
Build a workbook
Data elements
Tables
Query
MANAGE WORKBOOKS
Manage a workbook
Workbook templates
Workbook lifecycle
Workbook performance
Workbook security
Manage SQL queries
CHART
Intro to charts
Build a chart
Customize a chart
FILTER
Filter data
Intro to control elements
Work with controls
DESIGN
Design layout
UI elements
Workbook formatting
ADD LOGIC
Intro to actions
Create workbook actions
Configure workbook actions
INTERACT
Interact with workbooks
Interact with charts
Collaborate in workbooks
Search for files in your organization
SHARE
Share a workbook
Share a folder
Share templates
Send or schedule workbook exports
Export data
Manage scheduled exports
About exporting data
CALCULATE
Operators overview
Use AI with formulas (Beta)
Perform AI queries
Functions
Metrics
Custom functions
EMBED
Intro to embedded analytics
Public embedding
Secure embedding
Advanced data security in embeds
Additional embedding configurations
Embed SDK for React
DEVELOP
Sigma API
Plugin development
ADMIN
Administer Sigma
Users and teams
Permissions
Authentication
Third-party integrations
Organization settings
Customize
Localize
Manage assets
Audit and usage
Develop
SUPPORT
Sigma support
Sigma product releases
Supported regions, data platforms, and features
Folder and Document Permissions
Suggest Edits
Who manages permissions?
Access for each Sigma document can be shared, modified or revoked by either the individual document’s owner or an organization Admin.
The document owner is initially its the member who created it. However, admins do have the ability to reassign ownership when managing content permissions (note the new owner must be shared the document first before they can be assigned ownership).  Ownership may also be transferred to an admin if the original owner’s account has been deactivated.
Permission Types
Permissions can be granted to users, teams, and/or to all organization members. Workspace and folder permission options vary from document permission options.
Folder Permissions
Permissions set at the folder level apply to all documents within the particular workspace or folder.
Permission Folder access and capabilities
Can view - View-only access to documents and folders in the shared space
Can explore - Explore access to workbooks in the shared space
- View-only access to all datasets in the shared space
Can contribute - Create and edit their own docs and folders
- View and explore others users’ documents and folders in the shared space
- Manage anything they create. Includes deletion, renaming, moving of their own documents and folders

A user with Can Contribute access to a workspace automatically gets Can Edit access to all documents that they’ve personally created in that workspace. They also get Can View access to datasets in the workspace and Can Explore access to workbooks in the workspace.
Can manage - Create and edit their own documents and folders
- Edit other’s documents and folders in the shared space
- Manage anything in the shared space. Includes access management, sharing, deletion, renaming, and moving of anyone’s documents and folders

Can Manage in a workspace or folder grants Can Edit on any docs within that folder.
Document Permissions
Permissions set at the document level apply to the particular workbook or dataset.
Permission Document access and capabilities
Can view - View and copy the document
- Send and schedule exports
- Use datasets as data sources for workbooks or other datasets
Can explore (Only available for workbooks)

- All Can view privileges
- Perform analysis in existing workbooks
Can edit - All Can view and Can explore privileges
- Edit, publish, and share 
- Can manage content, including the ability to delete, move, or rename.
Permission Inheritance
Permissions are Additive
It is possible that a user or team can be granted multiple permissions on content.
For example, a user may be granted Can View access on a folder and Can Edit access on a specific document in that folder. In such a scenario, Can Edit permission will be recognized for that specific document. However, the user will only have Can View permission on all other content in the folder.
Inherited permissions also cannot be downgraded. For example, if a user is granted Can Manage access on a folder, they automatically inherit the same permissions for all content in that folder. Assigning them to Can View access on a document in that folder will not override the inherited higher-level Can Manage access.
Upstream Access is Not Inherited
When a team or user is given access to content in Sigma, that access is NOT passed to upstream sources.
Grant and Manage Permissions
Permissions are managed directly on each individual folder or document. Use the instructions linked to below for the content type you wish to share.
Share a Workbook
Share a Dataset
Share a Folder
Access Shared Content
When content is shared with you, whoever shared it will be given the option to send an email notifying you that you now have access. To find content that has been shared with you:
Open Sigma’s left hand navigation panel.
Click to open your Shared With Me page.
Request Permissions to Access Content
If you do not have permissions to access specific content (such as, a workspace, folder, dashboard, dataset, or workbook), you'll receive an Access Denied error page. 
However, you can request access by clicking the Request Access button. Once clicked, the button will change to Request Sent. The owner of the content will review the request.
RELATED RESOURCES
Share a workbook
Share datasets
Share a Folder
Manage Workspaces
Resources
Sigma home
Blog
Learn
Product FAQs
© 2025 Sigma Computing