Home
Community
QuickStarts
Status
Documentation
API Recipes
API Reference
What's New
Search
START
About Sigma
Start using Sigma
CONNECT
Connect to data sources
Manage connections
ADD DATA
CSV uploads
Input tables
MODEL
Get started with data modeling (Beta)
Data models (Beta)
Model data from database tables
Datasets
Add and manage data
Join data
Transform data
ANALYZE
Workbook basics
Build a workbook
Data elements
Tables
Query
MANAGE WORKBOOKS
Manage a workbook
Workbook templates
Workbook lifecycle
Workbook performance
Workbook security
Manage SQL queries
CHART
Intro to charts
Build a chart
Customize a chart
FILTER
Filter data
Intro to control elements
Work with controls
DESIGN
Design layout
UI elements
Workbook formatting
ADD LOGIC
Intro to actions
Create workbook actions
Configure workbook actions
INTERACT
Interact with workbooks
Interact with charts
Collaborate in workbooks
Search for files in your organization
SHARE
Share a workbook
Share a folder
Share templates
Send or schedule workbook exports
Export data
Manage scheduled exports
About exporting data
CALCULATE
Operators overview
Use AI with formulas (Beta)
Perform AI queries
Functions
Metrics
Custom functions
EMBED
Intro to embedded analytics
Public embedding
Secure embedding
Advanced data security in embeds
Additional embedding configurations
Embed SDK for React
DEVELOP
Sigma API
Plugin development
ADMIN
Administer Sigma
Users and teams
Permissions
Authentication
Third-party integrations
Organization settings
Customize
Localize
Manage assets
Audit and usage
Develop
SUPPORT
Sigma support
Sigma product releases
Supported regions, data platforms, and features
Share a folder
Suggest Edits
You can categorize and share documents with people using folders. You share folders  with other users and teams using permission grants. Folders support three permission types:
Can view
Can contribute
Can manage
This document describes folder permissions and how to share folders; see folder and document permissions.
Permission Types
Permission options are the same for folders and workspaces. Permissions set at the folder or workspace level apply to all documents within that workspace or folder.
Permission
Granted privileges in shared workspaces and folders
Can View
View-only access to documents and folders in the shared folder.
Can Explore
Explore access to workbooks in the shared folder.
View-only access to all other document types (worksheets, dashboards and datasets) in the shared folder.
Can Contribute
Create and edit their own docs and folders.
View and explore others users’ documents and folders in the shared space.
Manage anything they create. Includes deletion, renaming, moving of their own documents and folders.
A user with Can Contribute access to a workspace automatically gets Can Edit access to all documents that they’ve personally created in that workspace. They also get Can View access to worksheets, dashboards, and datasets in the workspace and Can Explore access to workbooks in the workspace.
Can Manage
Create and edit their own documents and folders.
Edit other’s documents and folders in the shared space.
Manage anything in the shared space. Includes access management, sharing, deletion, renaming, and moving of anyone’s documents and folders.
Can Manage in a workspace or folder grants Can Edit on any docs within that folder.
Share a Folder
Share from within the Folder
Open the folder.
Click the Share button located in the top right corner of the screen. The share modal opens.
Type to add teams and/or individual members.
Select a permission type for each team and/or member.
(Optional) Enter an email notification under Add a Message or uncheck Send an email notification.
Click Save.
Share from a Navigation Page
Open the folder's parent folder.
Click the More ••• menu next to the folder you wish to share.
Click Share to open the share modal.
Type to add teams and/or individual members.
Select a permission type for each team and/or member.
(Optional) Enter an email notification under Add a Message or uncheck Send an email notification.
Click Save.
Modify or Revoke Access to a Folder
Open the folder's Share modal from either it’s More ••• menu on the a parent folder's page or from the Share button on the individual workspace’s page.
Click to open the Who has Access tab.
(Optional) To select a new access/grant type, use the Access Type dropdown menu to the right of the team or member.
(Optional) To revoke access completely, hover over the team or member. Then click the trash can icon that appears on the right side of the modal.
Click Save.
Respond to Request for Access to Content
If a user attempts to access your content and doesn't have permissions to do so, they can request access through the error page blocking their immediate access. This triggers a Request to Access email notification.
To respond to the Request for Access, do the following:
In the email notification, click the Respond to the Request button.
Sigma opens the Share folder modal, allowing you to view the current access requests. Optionally, click the permission drop-down menu to select the level of access the user should have.
Note: The user cannot be granted access higher than what their account type allows.
If desired, click Approve. If Approve is selected, the request is removed from the Share folder modal, and the user is listed in the Who has access tab.

Or, click Deny. If Deny is selected, the request is removed from the Share folder modal. 
Click Save or close the Share folder modal. Your decision on the Request for Access to Content will save either way.
RELATED RESOURCES
Folder and Document Permissions
Share a workbook
Resources
Sigma home
Blog
Learn
Product FAQs
© 2025 Sigma Computing