Home
Community
QuickStarts
Status
Documentation
API Recipes
API Reference
What's New
Search
START
About Sigma
Start using Sigma
CONNECT
Connect to data sources
Manage connections
ADD DATA
CSV uploads
Input tables
MODEL
Get started with data modeling (Beta)
Data models (Beta)
Model data from database tables
Datasets
Add and manage data
Join data
Transform data
ANALYZE
Workbook basics
Build a workbook
Data elements
Tables
Query
MANAGE WORKBOOKS
Manage a workbook
Workbook templates
Workbook lifecycle
Workbook performance
Workbook security
Manage SQL queries
CHART
Intro to charts
Build a chart
Customize a chart
FILTER
Filter data
Intro to control elements
Work with controls
DESIGN
Design layout
UI elements
Workbook formatting
ADD LOGIC
Intro to actions
Create workbook actions
Configure workbook actions
INTERACT
Interact with workbooks
Interact with charts
Collaborate in workbooks
Search for files in your organization
SHARE
Share a workbook
Share a folder
Share templates
Send or schedule workbook exports
Export data
Manage scheduled exports
About exporting data
CALCULATE
Operators overview
Use AI with formulas (Beta)
Perform AI queries
Functions
Metrics
Custom functions
EMBED
Intro to embedded analytics
Public embedding
Secure embedding
Advanced data security in embeds
Additional embedding configurations
Embed SDK for React
DEVELOP
Sigma API
Plugin development
ADMIN
Administer Sigma
Users and teams
Permissions
Authentication
Third-party integrations
Organization settings
Customize
Localize
Manage assets
Audit and usage
Develop
SUPPORT
Sigma support
Sigma product releases
Supported regions, data platforms, and features
Use metrics in a workbook
Suggest Edits
Metrics are custom aggregate calculations that you can reuse across workbook data elements that share the same data source: a dataset or a connection table. Define metrics at the level of the data source, and apply them to workbooks to ensure consistent metric logic across tables, visualizations, and pivot tables.
This document explains how to use metrics in a workbook to perform standard calculations with ease and efficiency. For more details about metrics in data models, datasets, and database tables, see About metrics. To create or manage metrics, see Create and manage metrics.
🚩
Metrics for datasets are generally available.
Metrics for data models are a private beta feature subject to quick, iterative changes. To join a limited test group and enable this feature for your Sigma organization, contact Support or reach out to your Account Executive. Beta features are subject to the Beta features disclaimer.
Because metrics are aggregate calculations, add them to aggregated data:
Grouped tables
Summary metrics for a table
Visualizations
Pivot table values
You can also use metrics in formulas.
Requirements
To use metrics in workbooks, you must have the following access:
You must be assigned an account type with the Full explore or Create, edit, and publish workbooks permissions enabled.
You must be the workbook owner, or have Can Explore or Can Edit workbook permissions.
View metric details
In a workbook, you can view available metrics of a data element in the Element properties > Metrics tab.
Hover over any metric to see its title, description, and formula.
Metrics are specific to an element's data source. All defined metrics appear in the Metrics tab. To create new metrics, see Create and manage metrics.
Metric suggestions also appear in the formula bar. Start typing the name of the metric to see auto-complete suggestions. To find which metrics are available, type "metrics", and scroll through the available options. Descriptions of the metrics appear as you scroll through the menu.
Add a metric to a grouped table
To calculate a metric as an aggregate within a grouping:
Select a table with at least one column grouping.
For Calculations, select + (Add column...) and select the metric.
Add a metric to the summary bar
To calculate a metric as an aggregate for the entire table:
In the summary bar, click ^ to expand the summary bar, then select + (Add summary...).
Choose the metric name from the list of available metrics and columns.
📘
Do not add another aggregation on the metric, because the metric is already aggregated.
Add a metric to a visualization
You can use a metric like any aggregate calculation in a visualization. Add a metric to a chart as the value axis or add the metric to a tooltip. Depending on the chart, you can also use a metric to specify the color scale, and more.
Chart a metric on the value axis
To add a metric to the value axis, usually the y-axis, of a visualization:
Next to the name of the axis, click + (Add column...).
In the menu that appears, under the Metrics header, select the metric.
Add a metric to a tooltip
To add a metric to a visualization's tooltip, follow these steps:
Under the Marks options, select the Tooltip tab.
Click Metrics.
Choose the metric from the list, and drag it to the Select column area.
Alternatively, click the plus icon, , in the Select column area, and choose the metric from the drop-down menu.
Add a metric as a pivot table value
In pivot tables, you can add metrics to the Values area.
In the Values section of the pivot table, select + (Add column...).
In the menu that appears, under the Metrics header, select the metric.
Use a metric in a calculation column
Reference metrics in formulas to generate dynamic values in calculation columns. Use the syntax [Metrics/<Metric Name>] to reference a specific metric.
For example, the following formula references a metric named Unique Users:
If([Metrics/Unique Users] > 500, "Popular", "Unpopular")
💡
While you cannot directly reference metrics in dynamic text, you can include metric output using calculation columns. Create a calculation column that references the metric, then reference that column in the dynamic text formula.
RELATED RESOURCES
Create and manage metrics
Resources
Sigma home
Blog
Learn
Product FAQs
© 2025 Sigma Computing