Troubleshoot your connection
Suggest Edits
Add Sigma IPs to the allowlist
In some cases, you may need to add Sigma's IP addresses to the allowlist, so you can successfully connect to your data. This is a necessary step when your warehouse is closed to external connections due to firewalls, security groups, or other IP-based security policies.
Sigma' lists its egress IP addresses on all individual Connection page. To see them, follow these steps:
Open the Administration > Connections page.
Select the relevant connection. 
If you don't have a connection to the data source, click Create Connection.
In the Connection Credentials section, see the IPs listed under the Host field.
📘
The IP addresses listed on the connections summary are not applicable to connections over Private Link. If you need the IP addresses for a Private Link connection, contact Sigma Support.
PostgreSQL
Sigma must be authenticated either at the Network level, or through 
Client Authentication.
Redshift
See Amazon Redshift cluster security groups.
Snowflake
See Network Policies.
Permissions for the Snowflake user role
Sigma uses the Snowflake user role specified on the connection.
Unless you have the correct permission grants to the user in Snowflake, you cannot see the data in Sigma.
If the connection uses OAuth, it inherits the permissions for each member of the organization directly from Snowflake. To troubleshoot permissions for an individual user or a service account user, confirm that they:
Have access permissions on your Snowflake warehouse
Inherit the intended role through your OAuth provider
Sync your data
Sigma automatically (and periodically) syncs your connection's metadata.
When you make changes in your cloud data warehouse, such as updating the schema for a table, you must perform a manual sync so these changes are reflected in Sigma.
Syncs can be performed at the connection, database, schema, or table level. As syncing only occurs at the level selected, to see your changes appear, you must perform a manual sync at all four of these levels.
To make the manual sync, follow these steps:
Navigate to Administration > Connections.
Select the relevant connection from the list.
Click Browse connection.
To sync the connection, which will discover updates to the databases available on that connection, click the sync icon, , on the connection.
To sync an individual database or schema, expand the connection, find the container, and click the action icon, , next to the name of the database or schema. Alternatively, you can find the database or schema by name by searching for it.
From the drop-down menu, select Sync now.
To sync an individual table, expand the connection, find the database that contains the table, expand that database, find the table, and then click the action icon, , next to the name of the table. Alternatively, you can find the table by name by searching for it.
From the drop-down menu, select Sync now.