Schedule materialization for a dataset
Suggest Edits
Materialize a dataset by scheduling materialization. The materialization schedule that you configure affects the data freshness for elements downstream. For more details, including limitations and best practices, see About materialization.
Requirements
Write access must be enabled on your connection.
To schedule materialization in a dataset, you must be assigned an account type with the Schedule materializations and Create, edit, and publish datasets permissions enabled.
You must have Can Edit access to the dataset.
Create a materialization schedule for a dataset
To materialize a dataset:
Open the dataset you want to materialize.
Select the Materialization tab and click Create Schedule.
In the Add Materialization Schedule modal, define a schedule to use to refresh the materialized data.
Click Save.
The first materialization of the data begins immediately.
Review the status of a dataset materialization
If a dataset is materialized, you can see the materialization status in the dataset header:
In the dataset header, click Info () to open the dataset information.
In the Materialization section, review the status. To view more details, such as the last and next refresh date, hover over the status.
A user assigned the Admin account type can view the status and history of materializations from the Materialization tab at any time. See Manage materializations.
Run a materialization job for a dataset
To manually run a scheduled materialization, do the following:
Open the dataset and select the Materialization tab.
In the Schedule section, click Run Now.
Modify a dataset materialization schedule
To make changes to a dataset materialization schedule:
Open the dataset and select the Materialization tab.
In the Schedule section, click More > Edit Schedule.
Define a new schedule.
Click Save.
The materialization schedule changes immediately. The next materialization occurs at the next scheduled time.
Delete a dataset materialization schedule
To remove a materialization schedule for a dataset and delete the materialized data from the connected data platform:
Open the dataset and select the Materialization tab.
In the Schedule section, click More > Remove Schedule.
In the confirmation that appears, select Remove.
Sigma automatically removes the materialized table from your warehouse. It can take up to 24 hours for the table to be deleted.