Home
Community
QuickStarts
Status
Documentation
API Recipes
API Reference
What's New
Search
START
About Sigma
Start using Sigma
CONNECT
Connect to data sources
Manage connections
ADD DATA
CSV uploads
Input tables
MODEL
Get started with data modeling (Beta)
Data models (Beta)
Model data from database tables
Datasets
Add and manage data
Join data
Transform data
ANALYZE
Workbook basics
Build a workbook
Data elements
Tables
Query
MANAGE WORKBOOKS
Manage a workbook
Workbook templates
Workbook lifecycle
Workbook performance
Workbook security
Manage SQL queries
CHART
Intro to charts
Build a chart
Customize a chart
FILTER
Filter data
Intro to control elements
Work with controls
DESIGN
Design layout
UI elements
Workbook formatting
ADD LOGIC
Intro to actions
Create workbook actions
Configure workbook actions
INTERACT
Interact with workbooks
Interact with charts
Collaborate in workbooks
Search for files in your organization
SHARE
Share a workbook
Share a folder
Share templates
Send or schedule workbook exports
Export data
Manage scheduled exports
About exporting data
CALCULATE
Operators overview
Use AI with formulas (Beta)
Perform AI queries
Functions
Metrics
Custom functions
EMBED
Intro to embedded analytics
Public embedding
Secure embedding
Advanced data security in embeds
Additional embedding configurations
Embed SDK for React
DEVELOP
Sigma API
Plugin development
ADMIN
Administer Sigma
Users and teams
Permissions
Authentication
Third-party integrations
Organization settings
Customize
Localize
Manage assets
Audit and usage
Develop
SUPPORT
Sigma support
Sigma product releases
Supported regions, data platforms, and features
Connect to data sources
Suggest Edits
A data source connection enables Sigma to communicate with your data warehouse. An open and available connection is necessary for Sigma to send commands and receive answers in the form of data result sets.
To connect to a data source, every application (including Sigma) must provide a connection string that consists of the address or location of the data, appropriate user validations (user id and password), specific database configuration options, security options, and many more. Data source connections are expensive to create, relative to the time of operations that you can subsequently perform on them. Therefore, we open a connection and keep it active to perform a series of discrete operations. We manage the "closing" and refreshing of the connections regularly, so when you work with Sigma the next day, you can continue with your work and use the same connection, seamlessly. 
While connections are a very powerful tool, consider carefully before creating multiple connections to the same database entity. Because you cannot move data across connections, you cannot perform cross-table calculations. For example, if you access Table1 from Connection1 and Table2 from Connection2, you cannot look at these tables as a collective entity, even if they are in the same database.
Requirements
Admin privileges in your Sigma organization.
For more information, see User account types.
A data warehouse that Sigma supports.
These include Snowflake, BigQuery, Redshift, Databricks, PostgreSQL, AlloyDB, and MySQL .
Create a connection to the data warehouse
Each warehouse type takes different input parameters. Use the following instructions for your connection method:
Connect to AlloyDB
Connect to BigQuery
Connect to Databricks
Connect to MySQL
Connect to PostgreSQL
Connect to Redshift
Connect to Snowflake
Connect to Starburst
Add Sigma IPs to the allowlist
When your warehouse is closed to external connections because of firewalls, security groups, or other IP-based security policies, you have to add Sigma's IP addresses to the allowlist, so you can successfully connect to your data.
Sigma's egress IP addresses are listed on all individual connection pages in your Sigma Administration portal.
To view them:
Open your Administration portal, then click Connections in the left navigation.
Select any connection or click Create Connection.
Look for the IP addresses listed under connection credentials.
📘
The IP addresses listed on the connections summary are not applicable to connections over Private Link. If you need the IP addresses for a Private Link connection, contact Sigma Support.
Write access
You can enable write access on your connection. Write access is required for materialization, CSV uploads, input tables, and warehouse views.
Permissions
After creating a connection, you can selectively share access with other people in your organization. For more information, see Data Permissions.
Query timeouts
By default, Sigma sets query timeouts to 120 seconds (2 minutes). When queries hit the timeout limit, Sigma will cancel the query. Under Connection Features, you can set a custom query timeout for your connection.
RELATED RESOURCES
Connect to AlloyDB
Connect to BigQuery
Connect to Databricks
Connect to MySQL
Connect to PostgreSQL
Connect to Redshift
Connect to Snowflake
Connect to Starburst
Resources
Sigma home
Blog
Learn
Product FAQs
© 2025 Sigma Computing