Submit a support request
Suggest Edits
When live chat is unavailable, or if you prefer to receive support communications via email, you can submit a support request in Sigma's support portal.
Go to support.sigmacomputing.com and click Submit a request, or click here to open the form directly.
If you're not currently logged into your Sigma Support account, submit your credentials to access the form.
📘
Your Sigma Support account is separate from your Sigma app account and may have been created during customer onboarding. If you cannot sign in and don't receive a password reset email after submitting a Forgot password request, you might not have an existing Sigma Support account. To request one, contact your Sigma Account Manager.
Complete the Submit a request form:
[optional] In the CC field, enter additional email addresses that should receive a copy of the request and all responses. The email address associated with your Sigma Support account is automatically saved as a recipient.
In the Subject field, enter a brief summary of your request.
In the Description field, describe the issue and include relevant information (for example, the error message and ID) that can enable the Support team to quickly and easily assist you.
Click the Severity field and select an option from the dropdown:
S3 (low) General product questions and feature requests.
S2 (medium) Specific product functionality is degraded and affects a small number of users.
S1 (high) Sigma service or performance is severely degraded for one or more product components and affects business processes.
S0 (critical) Sigma service is inaccessible for one or more major product components and affects crucial business processes.
🚧
A request submitted with the S0 (critical) severity level immediately alerts the on-call Support engineers, regardless of day or time. Please select this severity level only if your issue meets the criteria.
[optional] In the Attachments section, add relevant files that can help the Support team better understand the issue.
Click Submit.
Sigma sends a confirmation email and all Support responses to the email address associated with your Help Desk account.
RELATED RESOURCES
Sigma support
Escalate critical issues