Home
Community
QuickStarts
Status
Documentation
API Recipes
API Reference
What's New
Search
START
About Sigma
Start using Sigma
CONNECT
Connect to data sources
Manage connections
ADD DATA
CSV uploads
Input tables
MODEL
Get started with data modeling (Beta)
Data models (Beta)
Model data from database tables
Datasets
Add and manage data
Join data
Transform data
ANALYZE
Workbook basics
Build a workbook
Data elements
Tables
Query
MANAGE WORKBOOKS
Manage a workbook
Workbook templates
Workbook lifecycle
Workbook performance
Workbook security
Manage SQL queries
CHART
Intro to charts
Build a chart
Customize a chart
FILTER
Filter data
Intro to control elements
Work with controls
DESIGN
Design layout
UI elements
Workbook formatting
ADD LOGIC
Intro to actions
Create workbook actions
Configure workbook actions
INTERACT
Interact with workbooks
Interact with charts
Collaborate in workbooks
Search for files in your organization
SHARE
Share a workbook
Share a folder
Share templates
Send or schedule workbook exports
Export data
Manage scheduled exports
About exporting data
CALCULATE
Operators overview
Use AI with formulas (Beta)
Perform AI queries
Functions
Metrics
Custom functions
EMBED
Intro to embedded analytics
Public embedding
Secure embedding
Advanced data security in embeds
Additional embedding configurations
Embed SDK for React
DEVELOP
Sigma API
Plugin development
ADMIN
Administer Sigma
Users and teams
Permissions
Authentication
Third-party integrations
Organization settings
Customize
Localize
Manage assets
Audit and usage
Develop
SUPPORT
Sigma support
Sigma product releases
Supported regions, data platforms, and features
Create and manage dataset warehouse views
Suggest Edits
Warehouse views are virtual tables in Snowflake and BigQuery that you can query using Sigma or any other application in your data ecosystem. Create warehouse views based on the data you model in Sigma to simplify queries and retrieve relevant and up-to-date datasets directly from your database.
This document describes dataset warehouse views and how to utilize them.
System requirements
To utilize dataset warehouse views, your organization must configure a Snowflake or BigQuery connection with write access enabled.
About dataset warehouse views
When write access is enabled for your Snowflake or BigQuery connection, Sigma automatically creates a warehouse view for any dataset using the connection's data. Instead of storing the dataset as a database table, a warehouse view saves a SQL statement that expresses specific query logic defined by the dataset.
When Sigma creates a warehouse view, it establishes a live link between the CDW/DBMS and Sigma. The view references the dataset as the source of truth and automatically updates to reflect the most recent version of the data.
Dataset warehouse views vs. materializations
For any dataset, Sigma can create up to two views:
A warehouse view that allows you to access the dataset's generated SQL.
A materialized view that allows you to access the Sigma-generated materialization (if materializations are configured and scheduled for the dataset).
Sigma saves warehouse views every time dataset changes are published. Therefore, when you query a warehouse view, you retrieve live data from the data sources. When you query a materialized view, however, you retrieve data from the last scheduled materialized table, which means the retrieved data may differ from the live data.
Query a dataset warehouse view
To reference a dataset warehouse view in a SQL query, use the view path.
Open the dataset in Sigma.
Click the info icon to view the dataset details.
In the Warehouse views section, click More in the Dataset field and select Copy path. Use this path to access the dataset's modeled data from Sigma or any application in your data ecosystem that supports SQL.
Limitations
If a parameter is used in your dataset, the warehouse view will only reflect the parameter’s default value.
If a SQL dataset uses non-qualified SQL (where the SQL paths are not explicitly defined), the view will show an error for that dataset and any dataset that references it.
Insufficient database grants
If write access is enabled for the connection but you're shown an Insufficient permissions warning in Sigma’s warehouse views details, you may have insufficient permissions in Snowflake or BigQuery.
In addition to USAGE grants to access the destination database, you must have USAGE, CREATE TABLE, CREATE VIEW, and CREATE STAGE grants to the write destination schema.
To ensure all appropriate grants have been set, see the instructions and commands outlined in Set up write access.
RELATED RESOURCES
Materialization
Create and manage workbook warehouse views
Resources
Sigma home
Blog
Learn
Product FAQs
© 2025 Sigma Computing