Home
Community
QuickStarts
Status
Documentation
API Recipes
API Reference
What's New
Search
START
About Sigma
Start using Sigma
CONNECT
Connect to data sources
Manage connections
ADD DATA
CSV uploads
Input tables
MODEL
Get started with data modeling (Beta)
Data models (Beta)
Model data from database tables
Datasets
Add and manage data
Join data
Transform data
ANALYZE
Workbook basics
Build a workbook
Data elements
Tables
Query
MANAGE WORKBOOKS
Manage a workbook
Workbook templates
Workbook lifecycle
Workbook performance
Workbook security
Manage SQL queries
CHART
Intro to charts
Build a chart
Customize a chart
FILTER
Filter data
Intro to control elements
Work with controls
DESIGN
Design layout
UI elements
Workbook formatting
ADD LOGIC
Intro to actions
Create workbook actions
Configure workbook actions
INTERACT
Interact with workbooks
Interact with charts
Collaborate in workbooks
Search for files in your organization
SHARE
Share a workbook
Share a folder
Share templates
Send or schedule workbook exports
Export data
Manage scheduled exports
About exporting data
CALCULATE
Operators overview
Use AI with formulas (Beta)
Perform AI queries
Functions
Metrics
Custom functions
EMBED
Intro to embedded analytics
Public embedding
Secure embedding
Advanced data security in embeds
Additional embedding configurations
Embed SDK for React
DEVELOP
Sigma API
Plugin development
ADMIN
Administer Sigma
Users and teams
Permissions
Authentication
Third-party integrations
Organization settings
Customize
Localize
Manage assets
Audit and usage
Develop
SUPPORT
Sigma support
Sigma product releases
Supported regions, data platforms, and features
Edit, draft, and publish a workbook
Suggest Edits
When you edit a workbook, you create a draft. To make the changes visible to Viewers, you publish the draft. You can also choose to discard your draft, and return to the previously published version.
Any user with Can Edit access to the workbook can edit it. You enter Edit mode by clicking the Edit button.
If multiple users edit a workbook at the same time, the edits are automatically saved to a shared, live draft. Multiple editors can collaborate on this single draft in real time. See Collaborate with Live Edit in workbooks.
When a user views or explores a saved workbook, they see the most recent published version.
This document describes how to edit drafts and publish workbooks and how to delete and restore deleted workbooks.
Requirement
To draft and publish new workbook versions, you must have Can Edit access to the individual workbook.
Edit an existing workbook
To begin editing an existing workbook, click Edit in the workbook header.
After the workbook enters Edit mode:
The Edit button changes to an Editing menu.
The version menu changes from PUBLISHED to DRAFT.
The header displays a list of all users currently in Edit mode.
💡
Click a user’s icon to navigate to the element they have selected (if they have one selected).
Workbook elements show the name of the user or users who are currently selecting the element.
The editor panel and sidebar appear on the left side of the page.
Changes you make to the draft automatically save to the live draft shared by all editors.
If an editor clicks Publish, Sigma publishes all drafted changes, including changes drafted by all editors on the live draft.
Preview drafted changes
You can preview all drafted changes in both Explore and View modes prior to publishing. This is helpful if you want to see what a workbook will look like to users with View or Explore permissions to access to the workbook.
To preview drafted changes:
Click Editing.
Select either Preview as explorer or Preview as viewer.

To change states again, click Previewing and select your target state.
Publish Drafted Changes
To publish your edits, click the Publish button located in the workbook header.
This action publishes all drafted changes to the workbook, including changes made by others editors using the live draft.
Discard drafted changes
To discard your drafted changes, click Editing > Restore draft to published version.
Sigma discards all users' unpublished edits, not just yours.
Return to the latest published version
To return to a workbook's latest published version, click Editing > Go to published version. Sigma places the workbook into Explore mode.
Sigma does not discard your drafted changes. You can return to the shared draft at any time by clicking the published version's Edit button.
For more information, see Workbook version history.
Delete a workbook
To delete a workbook you must be the owner of the workbook, have Can edit access to it, or have the Admin account type.
Click the caret () next to the workbook name, then click Delete....
On the Confirm Deletion modal, click Delete.
Recover a deleted workbook
To recover a workbook that has been deleted, you must be the owner of the workbook or have the Admin account type.
Go to your Home page.
In the navigation menu, select Trash.
In the Trash page, search the list of deleted documents and click the one you want to recover. You can sort the Name, Deleted on, or Deleted by columns to help identify the applicable document.
In the Document has been deleted modal, click Recover. Sigma immediately opens the recovered document.
RELATED RESOURCES
Workbook lifecycle: explore, draft, and publish
Workbook versions and version history
Workbook modes overview: View, Explore, Edit
Create a workbook or exploration
Workbook collaboration with Live Edit
Resources
Sigma home
Blog
Learn
Product FAQs
© 2025 Sigma Computing