Home
Community
QuickStarts
Status
Documentation
API Recipes
API Reference
What's New
Search
START
About Sigma
Start using Sigma
CONNECT
Connect to data sources
Manage connections
ADD DATA
CSV uploads
Input tables
MODEL
Get started with data modeling (Beta)
Data models (Beta)
Model data from database tables
Datasets
Add and manage data
Join data
Transform data
ANALYZE
Workbook basics
Build a workbook
Data elements
Tables
Query
MANAGE WORKBOOKS
Manage a workbook
Workbook templates
Workbook lifecycle
Workbook performance
Workbook security
Manage SQL queries
CHART
Intro to charts
Build a chart
Customize a chart
FILTER
Filter data
Intro to control elements
Work with controls
DESIGN
Design layout
UI elements
Workbook formatting
ADD LOGIC
Intro to actions
Create workbook actions
Configure workbook actions
INTERACT
Interact with workbooks
Interact with charts
Collaborate in workbooks
Search for files in your organization
SHARE
Share a workbook
Share a folder
Share templates
Send or schedule workbook exports
Export data
Manage scheduled exports
About exporting data
CALCULATE
Operators overview
Use AI with formulas (Beta)
Perform AI queries
Functions
Metrics
Custom functions
EMBED
Intro to embedded analytics
Public embedding
Secure embedding
Advanced data security in embeds
Additional embedding configurations
Embed SDK for React
DEVELOP
Sigma API
Plugin development
ADMIN
Administer Sigma
Users and teams
Permissions
Authentication
Third-party integrations
Organization settings
Customize
Localize
Manage assets
Audit and usage
Develop
SUPPORT
Sigma support
Sigma product releases
Supported regions, data platforms, and features
Sigma product releases
Suggest Edits
This document explains how Sigma Computing releases changes to the product, how those changes are announced in What’s new in Sigma, and what to expect for different release phases.
How Sigma Computing releases changes to the product
Sigma Computing is continuously evolving the Sigma service, adding new features and capabilities and improving what our customers can do with the product. Releases happen continuously, both for bug fixes and for new functionality. We strive to maximize the value delivered to our customers, and do not use fixed release cadences that slow down software delivery.
Because we release major changes in staged rollouts using feature flags, certain features or functionality might be available in your organization that are not yet available to all customers. Documentation for incrementally-released updates typically appears once a majority of customers have access to the change.
Release notes
Sigma Computing announces recent feature releases, functionality changes, and bug fixes weekly on Fridays, excepting holidays. See What’s new in Sigma to review this changelog. Customers can subscribe to the changelog using RSS.
Beta features
Sigma Computing makes some features available in private or public beta releases. These features are identified in the product with a beta icon () and in the documentation with a beta notice. Some features do not have a component in the user interface of the product to which a beta icon can be appended; in those cases, the beta notice appears in the documentation only.
Private beta features are not available by default and are not publicly announced. Private beta features are subject to frequent changes and might or might not have documentation available. If you are interested in joining a limited test group and enabling a private beta feature in your Sigma organization, contact Support or reach out to your Account Executive.
Public beta features are made available in the product to all customers in staged rollouts. Customers do not need to request access to public beta features. Public beta features might or might not have documentation available.
All beta features, whether private or public, and their documentation are subject to the following notice:
🚩
"Sigma may make certain functionality or features related to the Service which are designated as beta, pilot, non-production, or a similar description (each, a "Beta Feature") available to Customer. Beta Features may be used by Customer in Customer’s sole discretion and at Customer’s own risk. Beta Features are intended for evaluation purposes only. Sigma may discontinue Beta Features at any time in Sigma’s sole discretion and may choose to never make them generally available. Beta Features are considered part of the Service, however, Beta Features are provided “AS-IS”."
Generally available features
Unless otherwise indicated in the documentation, features and functionality are generally available (GA) in the product. When first released, GA features are made available in the product to all customers in staged rollouts. See How Sigma Computing releases changes to the product. If a feature was previously released in a beta release, the release notes indicate the transition to GA by including "(GA)" in the release announcement.
Deprecated features
Sigma Computing may deprecate features and functionality from the product.
Deprecated features are features for which Sigma Computing has declared an intention to stop further enhancement. Deprecated features continue to work in the product for existing customers but might not be available to newly created organizations. Sigma Computing continues to support deprecated features and provide critical bug fixes until they are removed from the product for all customers after a notice period. However, Sigma customers need to begin planning for the future removal of support. Deprecated features are marked in the documentation as deprecated.
The following features are deprecated:
Get workbook schemaGET /v2/workbooks/{workbookId}/schema
Update a connection PATCH /v2/connections/{connectionId}
Workbook modes without Live Edit (documentation available only to selected customers)
Warehouse data editing (documentation available only to selected customers)
Application embedding (documentation available only to selected customers)
Removed features
Sigma Computing may remove features and functionality from the product after a deprecation period.
Removed features are no longer supported and cannot be used. Customers must find an alternative to using the removed feature or functionality. Documentation for removed features is unavailable to all customers.
Resources
Sigma home
Blog
Learn
Product FAQs
© 2025 Sigma Computing