Home
Community
QuickStarts
Status
Documentation
API Recipes
API Reference
What's New
Search
START
About Sigma
Start using Sigma
CONNECT
Connect to data sources
Manage connections
ADD DATA
CSV uploads
Input tables
MODEL
Get started with data modeling (Beta)
Data models (Beta)
Model data from database tables
Datasets
Add and manage data
Join data
Transform data
ANALYZE
Workbook basics
Build a workbook
Data elements
Tables
Query
MANAGE WORKBOOKS
Manage a workbook
Workbook templates
Workbook lifecycle
Workbook performance
Workbook security
Manage SQL queries
CHART
Intro to charts
Build a chart
Customize a chart
FILTER
Filter data
Intro to control elements
Work with controls
DESIGN
Design layout
UI elements
Workbook formatting
ADD LOGIC
Intro to actions
Create workbook actions
Configure workbook actions
INTERACT
Interact with workbooks
Interact with charts
Collaborate in workbooks
Search for files in your organization
SHARE
Share a workbook
Share a folder
Share templates
Send or schedule workbook exports
Export data
Manage scheduled exports
About exporting data
CALCULATE
Operators overview
Use AI with formulas (Beta)
Perform AI queries
Functions
Metrics
Custom functions
EMBED
Intro to embedded analytics
Public embedding
Secure embedding
Advanced data security in embeds
Additional embedding configurations
Embed SDK for React
DEVELOP
Sigma API
Plugin development
ADMIN
Administer Sigma
Users and teams
Permissions
Authentication
Third-party integrations
Organization settings
Customize
Localize
Manage assets
Audit and usage
Develop
SUPPORT
Sigma support
Sigma product releases
Supported regions, data platforms, and features
Azure Private Link Connections
Suggest Edits
This document explains how to connect Sigma to your data warehouse that's hosted on Azure using Azure's Private Link.  
📘
See Sigma's Azure Private Link lab for more information on how to establish a secure connection between Sigma and an Azure data warehouse.
Requirements
A Sigma organization running on Azure.
Admin privileges in your Sigma organization; see User account types.
Snowflake, Databricks, PostgreSQL or MySQL Admin, depending on the data warehouse.
Be an Admin in Azure.
Introduction 
Sigma organizations running on Azure can securely connect to their data using Azure's Private Link, which allows Sigma to access the data warehouse hosted on Azure via a private endpoint in the virtual network. This not only enhances security during data transit but also improves performance by reducing network latency. With Private Link, Sigma connects to the data warehouse using private IP addresses, ensuring traffic never leaves the Microsoft network and data remains secure without exposure to the internet. 
To utilize Private Link, create a private endpoint in your virtual network that maps to the data warehouse, assign it a private IP address, and connect to the warehouse using this address.
Sigma supports connections to the following data warehouses on Azure:
Snowflake
Databricks
PostgreSQL
MySQL
Create Private Link Connection for Your Data Warehouse
Follow the steps below to create a Private Link connection to your data warehouse hosted in Azure.
📘
To initiate this process, the first step for all data warehouses is to retrieve the required information and send to your account manager.
Snowflake 
Provide Snowflake Info to Sigma
Follow the steps below to provide Sigma with the requisite information to create a Private Link for your organization.  
📘
Your Snowflake account must be Business Critical Edition to use Private Link.
In the Snowflake SQL console, run the following command:
SQL
select system$get_privatelink_config();
Below is the output from the SQL query. In the example above, the output is highlighted in blue.
JSON
{"regionless-snowsight-privatelink-url":"app-br67048-sigma_azure_us_east_2.privatelink.snowflakecomputing.com",
"privatelink-account-name":"os99982.east-us-2.privatelink",
"snowsight-privatelink-url":"app.east-us-2.privatelink.snowflakecomputing.com",
"privatelink-account-url":"os99982.east-us-2.privatelink.snowflakecomputing.com",
"privatelink-pls-id":"sf-pvlinksvc-azeastus2.cf82bce2-bw2d-4dw2-92ee-3dw2fb04d191.eastus2.azure.privatelinkservice",
"regionless-privatelink-account-url":"br67048-sigma_azure_us_east_2.snowflakecomputing.com",
"privatelink_ocsp-url":"ocsp.os99982.east-us-2.privatelink.snowflakecomputing.com",
"privatelink-connection-urls":"[]"}
In the output field, copy the values for privatelink-pls-id and private-account-url. In the example above, the values are highlighted in red.
In the example above, private-pls-id is
sf-pvlinksvc-azeastus2.cf82bce2-bw2d-4dw2-92ee-3dw2fb04d191.eastus2.azure.privatelinkservice
and private-account-url is
os99982.east-us-2.privatelink.snowflakecomputing.com
Send these two values to your Sigma account manager.
Sigma creates a Private Link and alert you when the link is active.
📘
You can't configure the connection until Sigma creates the Private Link.
Configure Snowflake Connection
Follow the steps below to configure your Sigma Snowflake connection to use Private Link.
After the private link is active, in Sigma, go to Admin > Connections > Snowflake.
Click Create to create a Snowflake connection.
In the Account field, enter the three parts of the account URL in this format: <account>.<region_id>.privatelink
For example, if the account URL is:
test123.west-us-2.privatelink.snowflakecomputing.com
The Account field is test123.west-us-2.privatelink
Under Warehouse, enter your warehouse’s name as listed in Snowflake.
If you have OAuth enabled on your organization, and you would like to use it on the connection, switch on OAuth access; see Connect to Snowflake with OAuth.
Please note: Steps 9 - 11 are not applicable if you choose to use OAuth without a service account.
Under User, enter your Snowflake username.
Under Password, enter your Snowflake password.
[optional] For Role, you can specify a Snowflake role to be used on this connection.
[optional] For Connection Features, you can set a connection timeout and/or enable write access.
After completing the form, click Create.
Databricks
Prerequisites
You must create an Azure Databricks workspace.
Your Databricks workspace must be Premium tier.
A customized networking configuration is required to support Private Link.
Provide Databricks Resource ID to Sigma
Follow the steps below to provide Sigma with the Resource ID to create a private link for your organization.  
In Azure Services, hover over Azure Databricks and click Create.
Click JSON View in the top-right corner of the databricks workspace page in Azure. 
On the Networking tab, you must check Yes for Deploy Azure Databricks workspace in your own Virtual Network and enter pre-configured virtual network and two subnets within the virtual network CIDR range for public and private subnet fields.
Copy the following values and send them to your Account Executive:
Resource ID
Region Name for the Databricks warehouse (under Location)
URL for the Databricks service (formatted as adb-<workspace-id>.<random-number>.azuredatabricks.net)
Private Link Approval
Follow the steps below to approve the Private Link after Sigma notifies you. 
In the Azure portal, go to Azure Databricks.
Click the selected Azure Databricks workspace.
Click Networking on the left panel.
Click on Private endpoint connections.
Select the newly created private endpoint. The status will be Pending. Check Approve to approve the endpoint. Copy the name of the private endpoint, it's required when you configure Sigma. 
Configure Databricks Connection
In the Databricks section of Azure, click on the warehouse instance > Databricks Workspace.
Click Launch Workspace.
In Databricks, select SQL in the Data Science & Engineering dropdown. 
Click Review SQL Warehouses. 
Select the warehouse. 
Click the Connection details tab. 
Copy the HTTP path value in Databricks as it's required in the Sigma UI. 
Go to User Settings in Databricks by clicking on your username. 
Click Personal access tokens tab. 
Click Generate new token.
In the Lifetime field, set the duration of the private link. The link will expire based on the value. 
Enter a value in the Comment field.
Click Generate. Copy this token as it's required in the Sigma UI.
In Sigma, go to Admin > Connections > Databricks.
In the Host field, enter the private endpoint you copied when you approved the endpoint, in the following format.
<private_endpoint_name>.pl-auth.azuredatabricks.net
For example, if the private endpoint name is databricks-endpoint, then you would enter the following in the Host field.
databrick-endpoint.pl-auth.azuredatabricks.net
📘
To locate the private endpoint's name, go to your Azure portal > click the Azure Databricks Workspace > click Networking on the left panel. The private endpoint name is displayed in the Private Endpoint column in Private endpoint connections.
Paste the HTTP path value from Azure into the HTTP path field in Sigma. 
Paste the token you created in Azure and enter into Access token field in Sigma.  
[optional] Under Connection Features, you can set a connection timeout and/or enable write access.
[optional] In the Connection queue size field, define the number of interactive queries Sigma can run on this connection concurrently.
Click Create in Sigma.
PostgreSQL
Private Link can be enabled for Azure Database for PostgreSQL flexible server instances that are created with public access, or single server instances.
Prerequisites
To add a Private Link connection, you must complete the following procedures:
Provide your PostgreSQL Resource ID to Sigma
Approve the Private Link in Azure
Configure the PostgreSQL connection in Sigma
Provide your PostgreSQL Resource ID to Sigma
Sigma requires your Resource ID to create a Private Link for your organization. View the Azure documentation on How to get your Azure Resource ID. Copy the Resource ID from the JSON View of your server page, as well as the Region Name for the PostgreSQL warehouse. Send these to your Sigma Account Executive.
Approve the Private Link in Azure
Once Sigma has finished configuring the Private Link, View the Azure documentation on how to Approve private endpoint connections. Ensure the status of the private endpoint is changed from Pending to Accepted.
Configure the PostgreSQL connection in Sigma
Configure a new Private Link PostgreSQL connection in Sigma:
Go to Administration > Connections.
Select Create Connection, then select PostgreSQL. Enter a Name for your connection.
Fill out the fields under Connection Credentials:
Host Enter the DNS name provided by your Sigma Account Executive.
User Enter the Admin Username found in your Azure PostgreSQL server page.
Port Enter the PostgreSQL port number.
Password Enter the password created to access your data warehouse.
Database Enter the name of your database.
Turn on the Enable TLS toggle on to enable TLS encryption for your connection.
MySQL
Prerequisites
Private Link can only be enabled for Azure Database for MySQL flexible server instances that are created with public access.
To add a Private Link connection, you must complete the following procedures:
Provide your MySQL Resource ID to Sigma
Approve the Private Link in Azure
Configure the MySQL connection in Sigma
Provide your MySQL Resource ID to Sigma
Sigma requires your Resource ID to create a Private Link for your organization. View the Azure documentation on How to get your Azure Resource ID. Copy the Resource ID from the JSON View of your server page, as well as the Region Name for the MySQL warehouse. Send these to your Sigma Account Executive.
Approve the Private Link in Azure
Once Sigma has finished configuring the Private Link, View the Azure documentation on how to Approve private endpoint connections. Ensure the status of the private endpoint is changed from Pending to Accepted.
Configure the MySQL connection in Sigma
Configure a new Private Link MySQL connection in Sigma:
Go to Administration > Connections.
Select Create Connection, then select MySQL. Enter a Name for your connection.
Fill out the fields under Connection Credentials:
Host Enter the DNS name provided by your Sigma Account Executive.
User Enter the Admin Username found in your MySQL server page.
Port Enter the MySQL port number.
Password Enter the password created to access your data warehouse.
Database Enter the name of your database.
Turn on the Enable TLS toggle on to enable TLS encryption for your connection.
Resources
Sigma home
Blog
Learn
Product FAQs
© 2025 Sigma Computing