Use custom account types with your IdP
Suggest Edits
If your organization uses an identity provider (IdP) to centrally manage permissions, you must assign users to specific Sigma account types in the IdP.
This document explains how to use and assign custom account types in your IdP.
📘
The procedures detailed in this document apply to Okta and Azure IdPs only.
Requirements
Admin access to Sigma
Administrator access to your IdP
SCIM configured for Sigma and your IdP; see Manage Users and Teams with SCIM.
General Instructions
Log in to Sigma and create a custom account type.
Log in to your IdP.
Create a new user type that matches your custom account type in Sigma. The identifier should be identical to its corresponding account type in Sigma.
After saving, you should now be able to assign existing or new users to your account type.
🚧
The user type attribute is case-sensitive. When configuring default account types (Admin, Lite, Essential, Pro), the value indicated should be lower case (e.g. "essential"). Other account type configurations are also case-sensitive, and the value set in your IdP must match the value in Sigma exactly, or errors may occur when trying to provision users.
Using Custom Account Types with Okta
Log in to Sigma and create a custom account type.
Log in to Okta and open your Sigma application.
Open the Provisioning tab.
Click the Go to Profile Editor button to open the Profile Editor page.
Click the edit button for the User Type attribute.
Under Attribute members, click Add Another.
Enter a Display name and Value. These identifiers must match the name of the custom account type in Sigma.
Click Save Attribute.
You can now assign this user type to new and existing users via your application’s Assignments tab.
Using Custom Account Types with Azure
Log in to Sigma and create a custom account type.
Log in to Azure and open your Sigma application.
Azure Active Directory -> App Registrations -> All Applications -> Search for and select your application.
Go to the App Roles page.
Click Create app role to create a new app role.After the role is created, it should appear on the users / groups assignments page and can be assigned.
RELATED RESOURCES
Create and manage account types
Use Custom Account Types with your IdP
Manage Users and Teams with SCIM
Manage Users and Teams with SCIM and Okta
Configure [Azure and] Sigma Computing for automatic user provisioning (Azure documentation)