Home
Community
QuickStarts
Status
Documentation
API Recipes
API Reference
What's New
Search
START
About Sigma
Start using Sigma
CONNECT
Connect to data sources
Manage connections
ADD DATA
CSV uploads
Input tables
MODEL
Get started with data modeling (Beta)
Data models (Beta)
Model data from database tables
Datasets
Add and manage data
Join data
Transform data
ANALYZE
Workbook basics
Build a workbook
Data elements
Tables
Query
MANAGE WORKBOOKS
Manage a workbook
Workbook templates
Workbook lifecycle
Workbook performance
Workbook security
Manage SQL queries
CHART
Intro to charts
Build a chart
Customize a chart
FILTER
Filter data
Intro to control elements
Work with controls
DESIGN
Design layout
UI elements
Workbook formatting
ADD LOGIC
Intro to actions
Create workbook actions
Configure workbook actions
INTERACT
Interact with workbooks
Interact with charts
Collaborate in workbooks
Search for files in your organization
SHARE
Share a workbook
Share a folder
Share templates
Send or schedule workbook exports
Export data
Manage scheduled exports
About exporting data
CALCULATE
Operators overview
Use AI with formulas (Beta)
Perform AI queries
Functions
Metrics
Custom functions
EMBED
Intro to embedded analytics
Public embedding
Secure embedding
Advanced data security in embeds
Additional embedding configurations
Embed SDK for React
DEVELOP
Sigma API
Plugin development
ADMIN
Administer Sigma
Users and teams
Permissions
Authentication
Third-party integrations
Organization settings
Customize
Localize
Manage assets
Audit and usage
Develop
SUPPORT
Sigma support
Sigma product releases
Supported regions, data platforms, and features
Export to email
Suggest Edits
You can send workbooks, their pages, and individual elements to email recipients on a set schedule or as-needed basis. For example, you can email an executive team member a PDF file of the team's KPIs on a regular basis.
You can set multiple export schedules for a workbook. Each email that you send can include multiple attachments as long as the total attachment size is below the export limit.
Sigma generates exports from the workbook's latest published version. You can also choose to export a tagged version of the workbook. Depending on the file format you choose, you can also export a bookmark. Changes you make to a workbook draft or exploration cannot be exported unless you publish the changes.
Requirements
To export data to email, you must:
Be assigned an account type with the Export to email permission enabled.
Have Can Edit or Can Explore access to the individual workbook.
To set up an email export to run queries as the recipients, your account type must also have the Run exports as recipient permission enabled.
To send a version-tagged workbook, the version tag must exist and be applied to the workbook. Admins can create a version tag, and workbook creators can tag a version of a workbook. For more information, see Version tagging.
📘
If your organization restricts email traffic sent from specific IP addresses, add 198.37.153.185 to the allowlist. Alternatively, you can configure a custom SMTP server to use instead. See Custom SMTP server.
Export limit
The size limit for emailed exports is 30MB. This is the total limit for all attachments when combined.
If an export exceeds this limit, the entire export fails and the owner of the scheduled export is notified. Scheduled exports that repeatedly exceed this limit are automatically paused and their owner notified.
See Download, export, and upload limitations.
Export to email as needed
To send an ad hoc email export:
From the workbook menu (), select Export.
📘
If the export to email option is not available, the workbook is in Edit mode. Either publish your draft or return to the latest published or tagged version of the workbook before attempting to export to email.
In the Recipient field, enter one or more comma-separated Sigma teams, Sigma users, or email addresses. You can email up to 1,000 recipients.
📘
If export authentication is configured for your organization, you can only send the export to email addresses associated with an authorized domain. When you attempt to send the export, Sigma notifies you if an email address contains a domain that is not allowed. An admin can change this setting. See Restrict export recipients.
(Optional) In the Subject field, enter a subject line.
(Optional) In the Email Body field, enter a message.
If the workbook has version tags or bookmarks, select which one you want to send.
In the Attachment section, choose what you want to export as an attachment. You can export:
An Entire workbook and export all workbook pages.
A specific workbook page, by navigating to the workbook page and choosing Entire page.
An element on a specific workbook page, by navigating to the workbook page and choosing the name of the element.
Select + Add to add more attachments.
For each attachment, select a supported file format. For a matrix of supported file formats, see Available export destinations and formats.
(Optional) By default, Sigma includes a link to the workbook in the email body. If you don't want to include a link, deselect the Include workbook link checkbox.
(Optional) By default, an export captures data accessible to the export creator. To limit the export to only what the recipient has permission to access, select the checkbox for Run queries as recipient. If you do not see the checkbox, your account type might not be assigned the Run exports as recipient permission.
🚩
Run queries as recipient only succeeds if you email 300 or fewer recipients and all of the recipients are Sigma users. If you enable this option and not all recipients are Sigma users, the email fails to send. The sender of the export receives a failure notification email with the error message: "No users found in organization for the provided email recipients".
💡
When an export is run as recipient, each query runs separately per recipient. Larger recipient lists result in more queries sent to the database and longer processing times.
(Optional) Depending on the attachment formats that you select, you can configure more options like combining attachments, sending attachments in a zip file, and more, See Configure additional options for exports.
Click Export.
Schedule an emailed export
Scheduled emails send the latest published version of the workbook, unless you select a tagged version.
To schedule an emailed report:
From the workbook menu (), select Schedule exports....
If this is the first schedule for the workbook, click Add Schedule, otherwise click + New schedule.
In the Recipient field, enter one or more comma-separated Sigma teams, Sigma users, or email addresses. You can email up to 1,000 recipients.
📘
If export authentication is configured for your organization, you can only send the export to email addresses associated with an authorized domain. When you attempt to create the schedule, Sigma notifies you if an email address contains a domain that's not allowed. An admin can change this setting. See Restrict export recipients.
(Optional) In the Subject field, enter a subject line.
(Optional) In the Email Body field, enter a message.
If the workbook has tagged versions or bookmarks, select which one you want to send.
In the Attachment section, choose what you want to export as an attachment. You can export:
An Entire workbook and export all workbook pages.
A specific workbook page, by navigating to the workbook page and choosing Entire page.
An element on a specific workbook page, by navigating to the workbook page and choosing the name of the element.
Select + Add to add more attachments.
For each attachment, select a supported file format. For a matrix of supported file formats, see Available export destinations and formats.
🚧
When executing a scheduled export or direct download to PDF or PNG formats, Sigma may store applicable control values as URL parameters in trace logs used for debugging and troubleshooting purposes. Exercise caution when exporting or downloading workbook content that uses controls to filter sensitive data.
In the Frequency section, set the delivery schedule:
(Optional) Select the dropdown for Daily and select Weekly, Monthly, or Custom.
For Daily, select Once a day or Multiple times.
For Weekly, select which days of the week to send an email, and choose between Once a day or Multiple times.
For Monthly, select which day of the month to send an email, and the time of day.
For Custom, specify a schedule using cron syntax. See Set up a custom delivery schedule.
If you select Multiple times, specify the frequency. For example, every 2 hours on the :15 of the hour between 9 AM and 6 PM.
📘
If you don't have the option to set a specific frequency, export frequency might be restricted for your organization. For more details, see Restrict export recipients and frequency.
(Optional) Adjust the default schedule time zone using the dropdown menu.
(Optional) Choose how often to send the export: Always or only If a condition is met. See Schedule a conditional export or alert.
(Optional) If you choose to send an export only If a condition is met, you can turn on the switch to stop notifying after a set number of occurrences per day, week, or in total. (This feature is in beta and subject to the Beta features notice).
(Optional) By default, Sigma includes a link to the workbook in the email body. If you don't want to include a link, deselect the checkbox for Include workbook link.
(Optional) By default, an export captures data accessible to the export creator. To limit the export to only what the recipient has permission to access, select the checkbox for Run queries as recipient. If you do not see the checkbox, your account type might not be assigned the Run exports as recipient permission.
🚩
Run queries as recipient only succeeds if you email 300 or fewer recipients and all of the recipients are Sigma users. If you enable this option and not all recipients are Sigma users, the email fails to send. The sender of the export receives a failure notification email with the error message: "No users found in organization for the provided email recipients".
💡
When an export is run as recipient, each query runs separately per recipient. Larger recipient lists result in more queries sent to the database and longer processing times.
(Optional) Depending on the attachment formats that you select, you can configure more options like combining attachments, sending attachments in a zip file, and more, See Configure additional options for exports.
(Optional) Select the checkbox for Customize control values to filter the exported data according to the value of one or more workbook controls. See Configure additional options for exports.
Click Create.
RELATED RESOURCES
Manage Your Schedules
Send a workbook export to email recipients
Send Slack notifications
Schedule a conditional export or alert
Apply control values to scheduled exports
Resources
Sigma home
Blog
Learn
Product FAQs
© 2025 Sigma Computing