Home
Community
QuickStarts
Status
Documentation
API Recipes
API Reference
What's New
Search
START
About Sigma
Start using Sigma
CONNECT
Connect to data sources
Manage connections
ADD DATA
CSV uploads
Input tables
MODEL
Get started with data modeling (Beta)
Data models (Beta)
Model data from database tables
Datasets
Add and manage data
Join data
Transform data
ANALYZE
Workbook basics
Build a workbook
Data elements
Tables
Query
MANAGE WORKBOOKS
Manage a workbook
Workbook templates
Workbook lifecycle
Workbook performance
Workbook security
Manage SQL queries
CHART
Intro to charts
Build a chart
Customize a chart
FILTER
Filter data
Intro to control elements
Work with controls
DESIGN
Design layout
UI elements
Workbook formatting
ADD LOGIC
Intro to actions
Create workbook actions
Configure workbook actions
INTERACT
Interact with workbooks
Interact with charts
Collaborate in workbooks
Search for files in your organization
SHARE
Share a workbook
Share a folder
Share templates
Send or schedule workbook exports
Export data
Manage scheduled exports
About exporting data
CALCULATE
Operators overview
Use AI with formulas (Beta)
Perform AI queries
Functions
Metrics
Custom functions
EMBED
Intro to embedded analytics
Public embedding
Secure embedding
Advanced data security in embeds
Additional embedding configurations
Embed SDK for React
DEVELOP
Sigma API
Plugin development
ADMIN
Administer Sigma
Users and teams
Permissions
Authentication
Third-party integrations
Organization settings
Customize
Localize
Manage assets
Audit and usage
Develop
SUPPORT
Sigma support
Sigma product releases
Supported regions, data platforms, and features
Use related columns in a workbook (Beta)
Suggest Edits
🚩
This documentation describes a private beta feature and is under construction. This documentation should not be considered part of our published documentation until this notice, and the corresponding Beta flag on the feature in the Sigma service, is removed. As with any beta feature, the feature described below is subject to quick, iterative changes. The latest experience in the Sigma service might differ from the contents of this document. Beta features are subject to the Beta features disclaimer.
If you are interested in joining a limited test group and enabling this feature in your Sigma organization, contact Support or reach out to your Account Executive.
If the data source of your data element in a workbook is a data model table with one or more relationships , you can add columns from the related tables to your data element. Any child elements that you create can also access the related columns.
Requirements
The data source must be a table element in a data model with one or more relationships defined.
You must be the workbook owner or be granted Can explore or Can edit access to the workbook.
Add a related column to a data element
If the data source of your data element in a workbook has one or more relationships defined, you can add the related column to your data element:
Explore the workbook or open the workbook for editing.
Select the data element.
In the editor panel, for columns, select + (Add columns...).
In the menu, choose Add source columns....
Review the Source columns list for available columns from tables linked through data model relationships. You can see directly related table columns, as well as columns from inherited relationships.
Select the checkbox for a column to add it to your data element.
The related column appears in your data element, titled Column Name (Relationship Name).
Use a related column in a formula
If the data source of your data element in a workbook has one or more relationships defined, you can also use the related column in the formula of a calculated column in the data element.
📘
You do not need to add the related column to the data element before using it in a formula.
Explore the workbook or open the workbook for editing.
Select the data element. For example, a table of bike trips taken from one rental bike docking station to another, called TRIP.
In the element, or in the editor panel, select + (Add column...).
In the formula bar, enter a formula that references the related column. As you type, the related columns appear in the list of autocomplete suggestion:
For example, to evaluate the availability of docking stations at the start station, you might write the following formula:
If([TRIP/Start Station Details/Dock Count] > 15, "high availability", [TRIP/Start Station Details/Dock Count] = 15, "medium availability", [TRIP/Start Station Details/Dock Count] < 15, "low availability")
The resulting table includes the calculated column, named Start Station Dock Availability:
Resources
Sigma home
Blog
Learn
Product FAQs
© 2025 Sigma Computing