Home
Community
QuickStarts
Status
Documentation
API Recipes
API Reference
What's New
Search
START
About Sigma
Start using Sigma
CONNECT
Connect to data sources
Manage connections
ADD DATA
CSV uploads
Input tables
MODEL
Get started with data modeling (Beta)
Data models (Beta)
Model data from database tables
Datasets
Add and manage data
Join data
Transform data
ANALYZE
Workbook basics
Build a workbook
Data elements
Tables
Query
MANAGE WORKBOOKS
Manage a workbook
Workbook templates
Workbook lifecycle
Workbook performance
Workbook security
Manage SQL queries
CHART
Intro to charts
Build a chart
Customize a chart
FILTER
Filter data
Intro to control elements
Work with controls
DESIGN
Design layout
UI elements
Workbook formatting
ADD LOGIC
Intro to actions
Create workbook actions
Configure workbook actions
INTERACT
Interact with workbooks
Interact with charts
Collaborate in workbooks
Search for files in your organization
SHARE
Share a workbook
Share a folder
Share templates
Send or schedule workbook exports
Export data
Manage scheduled exports
About exporting data
CALCULATE
Operators overview
Use AI with formulas (Beta)
Perform AI queries
Functions
Metrics
Custom functions
EMBED
Intro to embedded analytics
Public embedding
Secure embedding
Advanced data security in embeds
Additional embedding configurations
Embed SDK for React
DEVELOP
Sigma API
Plugin development
ADMIN
Administer Sigma
Users and teams
Permissions
Authentication
Third-party integrations
Organization settings
Customize
Localize
Manage assets
Audit and usage
Develop
SUPPORT
Sigma support
Sigma product releases
Supported regions, data platforms, and features
Top N filter
Suggest Edits
It's very common to filter columns by Top N, the top number (N) of rows, based on the filter criteria. This is useful when you want to see the top values in a sorted list, instead of the whole list.
Important: Because of the way Sigma automatically handles aggregations and groupings, the Top N filter may behave slightly differently than what you may have experienced with other products. See the examples and tips below for details.
Examples of Top N
How Applying Top N Changes a Bar Chart
For example, you may be interested in the top 5 stores that move the most merchandise, sorted by state. Before applying the Top N filter, a bar chart may look like this:
Tip: Maximize the chart to see its data table underneath. Sometimes it is helpful when applying filters to see how the filters change the table.
After applying Top N to the [Sum of Quantity], the chart looks like this:
Relationship of Top N Bar Chart to its Table
This example shows a maximized view of a chart, which includes its data table. The Top N filter is on the [Sum of Price] column. (If you put the filter on the [Store City] column, Sigma would filter the cities alphabetically.) This results in the list of 10 cities whose stores have the highest total prices of all things sold.
Top N on a Pivot Table with Multiple Groupings
When there are multiple grouping levels, the Top N filter does not filter the overall top 10 items; instead it filters within a bin defined by the 2nd lowest grouping level. In this example, Top N will apply to the Top 10 [Store City] rather than the Top 10 [Store Region] or [Store State].
Additional Examples
For more in-depth examples see the Community article How to Use a Top N Filter Parameter for Visualizations.
See also the video from phData, Understanding Top N Filters in Sigma.
Related Filters: Bottom N, Top Percentile, Bottom Percentile
You can use the same process as described above to use the other filters in the same dropdown.
How to Filter Using Top N
Set up the columns on a bar chart.
Select a new visualization using + ADD ELEMENT > DATA ELEMENTS > VIZ.
Add a column to the Y axis.
Add a column to the X axis. Keep the default aggregation.
Important: Sigma requires an aggregated column when using Top N.
If needed, set the sort criteria.
For the column you want to filter, select its menu > Filter. 

Important: Set the Top N filter on the column you want to be ranked. This can be counter-intuitive. In the example above, you want to show the top 10 Stores, so you would rank on [Store Name] not on [Sum of Quantity].
In the Filter panel, click the 3 dots to see the options.
Select Top N.
Enter the number of results to display.
Change the default chart header to best describe the filtered chart. For example, change "Sum of Quantity by Store Name", which is an internally-produced name, to "Top 10 Stores by Quantity Sold".
Change the Ranking Function
By default the Top N filter uses the Rank function. In some cases you may want to change it to the RankDense or RowNumber functions instead. The options are:
Rank: Assigns the same rank to duplicate values, and a gap is placed between the ranks. See Rank. Default.
Rank Dense: Assigns the same rank to duplicate values, and there is no gap between ranks. See RankDense.
Row Number: Ranks according to the highest row numbers. See RowNumber.
To change the ranking function:
From the control's filter icon at the top right of the control, open the control's FILTERS & CONTROLS panel.
From the filter's More menu, select Ranking function.
Tip: The text next to the menu option shows the currently-used function. By default it is Rank.
Select the type of rank you want.
Tips for Top N
Maximize the chart so you can see the table fields as you apply filters.
Only apply the top N filter to the column that is being ranked. 
For example, you want a bar chart showing the top ten product types. You put [Product Type] on the X-axis and [Sum of Revenue] on the Y-axis, then put the Top N filter on the [Sum of Revenue] column. This gives you the top 10 values of [Sum of Revenue] grouped by [Product Type].
Otherwise, if you put Top N on the [Product Type] column the chart will sort the products alphabetically.
Sigma requires an aggregated column for Top N.
Top N applies only to columns of type text, number, or date.
For a text column, the top N is determined by alphanumeric sorting.
RELATED RESOURCES
Rank
How to Use a Top N Filter Parameter for Visualizations (Community)
Understanding Top N Filters in Sigma
phData
Resources
Sigma home
Blog
Learn
Product FAQs
© 2025 Sigma Computing