Connect to AlloyDB
Suggest Edits
Sigma supports secure connections to AlloyDB.
This document explains how to connect your organization to a AlloyDB database.
📘
For information about Sigma feature compatibility with AlloyDB connections, see Region, warehouse, and feature support.
Requirements
Admin privileges in your Sigma organization.
For more information, see User account types.
An AlloyDB data warehouse, and an account there.
We recommend that you avoid granting excessive permissions to the account you use when connecting to your data store; for example, you do not require SYSADMIN-level access.
Create an AlloyDB Connection
📘
If your AlloyDB instance is on a VPC, you must take additional steps. For more information, see Configure VPC Service Controls.
Follow these steps to create a connection:
Click the user icon at the top right of your screen. 
The user icon is usually composed of your initials.
In the drop-down menu, select Add connection.
The Add new connections page appears.
In the Connection details, specify these:
Name
Specify the Name of the new connection. Sigma displays this name in the connection list.
Here, we use AlloyDB connection.
Type
Select the tile that represents the data warehouse you use.
Here, click the AlloyDB tile.
In the Connection Credentials section, specify the following:
Host
The path to your database. This can be a URL, or an IP address.
Enter your cluster's Endpoint URL. Sigma connects from IPs 104.197.169.18, and 104.197.193.23.
Port
The port that Sigma uses to connect to the host.
User
The username, or account, for connecting to AlloyDB.
For example, test.
Password
Enter the password that corresponds to the User on the AlloyDB account.
Database
The name of the database you plan to query.
Enable TLS
Optional.
This switch enables or disables TLS encryption on your connection.
Enabled by default.
SSH Tunnel
Optional.
This switch enables the SSH protocol for secure remote login. For details, see Connect through SSH.
Disabled by default.
If on, specify the Tunnel host and Tunnel port fields.
Tunnel host
The path to the tunnel server.
This can be a URL, or an IP address.
Appears only if SSH Tunnel is on.
Tunnel port
The port where the tunnel connects.
Appears only if SSH Tunnel is on.
In the Connection Features section, specify the following:
Connection timeout
The time before timeout (or cancellation), in seconds, that Sigma waits for the query to return results.
Default is 120, or 2 minutes.
Maximum is 600, or 10 minutes.
Use friendly names
This switch makes column names from the data source more readable.
For example, a database column ORDER_NUMBER appears as Order Number.
On by default.
In the Write Access section, decide if you require write access.
See Set up write access.
Enable write access
Necessary for CSV upload and Materialization.
Off by default.
If on, specify the Write schema field.
Write schema
The schema where Sigma writes tables. 
Appears only if Enable write access is on.
After you specify all the parameters of the connection, click Create.
After you successfully create your connection, Sigma displays it on the screen.
To verify your connection, click Browse Connection, and then explore the visible databases and tables.
Click Add Permission to grant data access for users in your organization.
See Data permissions.
The new connection also appears in the list of connections you have in your account.
Locate your AlloyDB cluster credentials
In the Google Cloud console, navigate to the Clusters page.
Click the cluster that you plan to connect to Sigma.
A cluster page appears.
It lists the required credentials for connecting to Sigma.
RELATED RESOURCES
Connect to data sources
Connect through SSH
Set up write access
Data permissions