Home
Community
QuickStarts
Status
Documentation
API Recipes
API Reference
What's New
Search
START
About Sigma
Start using Sigma
CONNECT
Connect to data sources
Manage connections
ADD DATA
CSV uploads
Input tables
MODEL
Get started with data modeling (Beta)
Data models (Beta)
Model data from database tables
Datasets
Add and manage data
Join data
Transform data
ANALYZE
Workbook basics
Build a workbook
Data elements
Tables
Query
MANAGE WORKBOOKS
Manage a workbook
Workbook templates
Workbook lifecycle
Workbook performance
Workbook security
Manage SQL queries
CHART
Intro to charts
Build a chart
Customize a chart
FILTER
Filter data
Intro to control elements
Work with controls
DESIGN
Design layout
UI elements
Workbook formatting
ADD LOGIC
Intro to actions
Create workbook actions
Configure workbook actions
INTERACT
Interact with workbooks
Interact with charts
Collaborate in workbooks
Search for files in your organization
SHARE
Share a workbook
Share a folder
Share templates
Send or schedule workbook exports
Export data
Manage scheduled exports
About exporting data
CALCULATE
Operators overview
Use AI with formulas (Beta)
Perform AI queries
Functions
Metrics
Custom functions
EMBED
Intro to embedded analytics
Public embedding
Secure embedding
Advanced data security in embeds
Additional embedding configurations
Embed SDK for React
DEVELOP
Sigma API
Plugin development
ADMIN
Administer Sigma
Users and teams
Permissions
Authentication
Third-party integrations
Organization settings
Customize
Localize
Manage assets
Audit and usage
Develop
SUPPORT
Sigma support
Sigma product releases
Supported regions, data platforms, and features
Configure additional options for exports
Suggest Edits
When you export workbook data from Sigma, you can configure additional options to control the appearance and content that gets exported.
User requirements
To configure export options, you must be assigned an account type with relevant export permissions.
Set up a custom delivery schedule
When you configure a scheduled export, if the default delivery options do not work for your needs, you can set up a custom cron schedule to define the delivery time.
On the Schedule Exports dialog, for the Frequency, choose Custom and enter a cron expression.
Use cron syntax to specify the minute, hour, day (month), month and day (week). For assistance writing cron expressions, see crontab guru.
For example, to send a report at 1:05 AM on the first Monday of the quarter, enter:
5 1 * 1/3 Mon
For example, to send a report at 1:30 AM on the first of every month, enter:
30 1 1 * *
📘
If you don't have the option to set a custom frequency, export frequency might be restricted for your organization. For more details, see Restrict export recipients and frequency.
Filter by control values
If your workbook uses controls to filter the data on a page or for a given element, you can also choose to filter the exported data by the values of one or more controls.
You can only set this option for scheduled exports.
On the Schedule Exports dialog, in the More Options section, select the checkbox for Customize control values.
In the Controls section that appears, search for and select a control ID in the search box.
Select the control value for the control and set it to the value that you want to use for the export.
Search to add another control, or click Create to save the scheduled export.
Merge PDF or Excel files
If you export multiple PDF or Excel files, you can combine the attachments into one file:
Multiple workbook pages or data elements as PDF attachments into one PDF file.
Multiple data elements as Excel attachments into one Excel file.
To combine attachments into one file, do the following:
On the Export or Schedule Exports dialog, in the More Options section, select the checkbox for Combine attachments.
If you don't see the checkbox, make sure that you selected a file type of Excel or PDF for at least 2 attachments.
Compress attachments to a .zip file
If you export one or more attachments that result in a large file size, you can choose to compress the attachments into a ZIP file.
On the Export or Schedule Exports dialog, in the More Options section, select the checkbox for Send as .zip file.
Your attachments appear in one zip file named merged-report.zip.
Repeat header labels
If you export a pivot table to Excel or CSV, you can repeat the header labels so that each pivot table row and column header appears in its own cell:
On the Export or Schedule Exports dialog, in the More Options section, select the checkbox to Repeat header labels.
If you don't see the checkbox, make sure that the file format is Excel or CSV and that you are exporting a pivot table element or a page or workbook with a pivot table element.
For example, for a pivot table like the following:
When you export the pivot table element, the headers show up for each pivot table row and column:
If you don't configure this setting, the pivot table row and column headers only show up once:
To configure this setting in the pivot table itself, see Repeat row labels.
Download Excel files with metadata
If you want to include additional metadata with Excel files, such as the date and time of the export and the name of the user downloading the Excel file, do the following:
For a workbook or workbook page, select the () to open the menu, then select Export.... For a workbook element, select More > Export, then under Send, select Export.
On the Export dialog, leave the default Direct Download option selected.
For the file type, select Excel.
In the More Options section, select the checkbox for Include metadata.
Select Export.
Format PDF export page layout
When exporting PDF files from Sigma, you can configure several different options to improve the format of the exported report:
Set a custom page width to match your desired PDF page width. Use 1050 pixels for portrait PDF exports, or 1380 pixels for landscape PDF exports. See Layout style settings.
Show up to 1000 rows of data in a table in your PDF. See Show additional rows.
Add a page break element to control where elements are pushed to the next page of the PDF export. See Add a page break.
If your workbook uses legacy layouts, see Format PDF exports (legacy layouts).
Show additional rows
If you want to export up to 1,000 rows of a table or pivot table, do the following:
📘
If you want to export an entire workbook or a page of the workbook, the table must be on its own row. There cannot be other elements in the same row.
Open the workbook in Edit mode.
In your workbook, locate the element that you want to show up to 1,000 rows of data for.
Select More > Export formatting, then click Expand table to first 1k rows. If this option has already been set, a checkmark is visible.
Publish the workbook.
Export the workbook to PDF to make sure the output looks as desired.
Make any necessary changes, then set up a scheduled export to your preferred destination.
Add a page break
If you want to specify where to break a PDF export of the workbook into separate pages, or if workbook elements get cut off or don't display as expected in a PDF export, add one or more page break elements to your workbook pages:
Open the workbook in Edit mode.
Select to open the workbook's Add New Element panel.
In the PDF export elements section, select a Page break element and drag it onto the workbook canvas.
Publish the workbook.
Export the workbook to PDF to make sure the output looks as desired.
Make any necessary changes, then set up a scheduled export to your preferred destination.
Example PDF layout configurations
In this example, no configuration changes have been made and a PDF export in portrait orientation exports a table with the same number as rows that are visible in the workbook:
In this example, the option to show up to 1,000 rows of data for a table has been selected, but no page break element is used on the workbook page. Choosing a PDF export in portrait orientation exports a table of up to 1000 rows, and at the end of the 1000 row table, a text element is visible on the same page. On the next page, another data element is visible:
In this example, the option to show up to 1,000 rows of data for a table has been selected and a page break element is used on the workbook page before a text element and a second data element. Choosing a PDF export in portrait orientation exports a table of up to 1000 rows, and at the end of the 1000 row table, there is a page break. On the next page, a text element is visible, followed by another data element:
Resources
Sigma home
Blog
Learn
Product FAQs
© 2025 Sigma Computing