Home
Community
QuickStarts
Status
Documentation
API Recipes
API Reference
What's New
Search
START
About Sigma
Start using Sigma
CONNECT
Connect to data sources
Manage connections
ADD DATA
CSV uploads
Input tables
MODEL
Get started with data modeling (Beta)
Data models (Beta)
Model data from database tables
Datasets
Add and manage data
Join data
Transform data
ANALYZE
Workbook basics
Build a workbook
Data elements
Tables
Query
MANAGE WORKBOOKS
Manage a workbook
Workbook templates
Workbook lifecycle
Workbook performance
Workbook security
Manage SQL queries
CHART
Intro to charts
Build a chart
Customize a chart
FILTER
Filter data
Intro to control elements
Work with controls
DESIGN
Design layout
UI elements
Workbook formatting
ADD LOGIC
Intro to actions
Create workbook actions
Configure workbook actions
INTERACT
Interact with workbooks
Interact with charts
Collaborate in workbooks
Search for files in your organization
SHARE
Share a workbook
Share a folder
Share templates
Send or schedule workbook exports
Export data
Manage scheduled exports
About exporting data
CALCULATE
Operators overview
Use AI with formulas (Beta)
Perform AI queries
Functions
Metrics
Custom functions
EMBED
Intro to embedded analytics
Public embedding
Secure embedding
Advanced data security in embeds
Additional embedding configurations
Embed SDK for React
DEVELOP
Sigma API
Plugin development
ADMIN
Administer Sigma
Users and teams
Permissions
Authentication
Third-party integrations
Organization settings
Customize
Localize
Manage assets
Audit and usage
Develop
SUPPORT
Sigma support
Sigma product releases
Supported regions, data platforms, and features
Workbook settings overview
Suggest Edits
A Sigma workbook has settings that apply to all its pages and elements. The settings covered in this document apply to workbooks using grid layout. See Create and manage workbook layouts.
Access workbook settings
Open the workbook settings panel from the Settings button at the bottom left of the workbook:
Theme settings
Choose a theme for your workbook. Administrators can create custom workbook themes. See Create and manage workbook themes.
Theme: Select from a set of predefined themes. Themes encompass the palette, fonts, and title and table text sizes. The default uses the Light theme settings. You can choose a theme and modify its settings.
Color settings
The Color settings control text, button, background, element, and visualization colors in a workbook.
Setting Description
Appearance Sets light or dark theme for a workbook.
Theme colors > Preset Sets a predefined color theme for workbook text, buttons, background, and visualizations.
Theme colors > Text Sets the color of workbook text for your theme.
Theme colors > Highlight Sets the color of buttons, link text, and selection indicators in your theme.
Theme colors > Surface Sets the color for element backgrounds, borders, and icons in your theme.
Override colors > Canvas Sets a custom color for the workbook canvas, different from the canvas color for the theme. Click x to clear.
Override colors > Element Sets a custom color for workbook elements. Click x to clear.
Visualization colors Applies a predefined palette or custom colors to use for visualizations in the theme. You can specify hex codes for the custom color palette.
Invert visualization tooltips Inverts the theme's text and background colors in tooltips.
When you specify a color, you can choose a color from a predefined palette, specify a hex code, pick a color from a window or document open on your computer using an eyedropper, or choose a color from a gradient.
Select Revert to default to undo your changes and reset the settings to the default.
Font settings
The Font settings control fonts throughout the workbook.
Setting Description
Text font Sets the font for non-data workbook text, like element titles, element descriptions, and table headers. The default is Source Sans Pro.
Data font Sets the font for workbook data. The default is Roboto.
Title font Sets the font size and color of element titles.
Select Revert to default to undo your changes and reset the settings to the default.
Layout style settings
The Layout style settings control the layout of workbook pages and elements.
Setting Description
Page width Sets the width of all pages in a workbook. The default is Full. Choose Custom to set a maximum width for workbook pages.
Spacing Sets the size of spacing between elements.
Corner Sets the shape of element corners. Choose from a square, rounded, or pill-shaped corner. The default is round.
Data element style > Padding Sets padding for a data element. Deselect the checkbox to remove padding around a data or control element.
Data element style > Background Sets a custom background color for a data or control element. Set to Auto to match the element background for the theme.
Select Revert to default to undo your changes and reset the settings to the default.
Table style settings
The Table style settings control the format and display of tables, pivot tables, and input tables. For more details about table style options, see Customize table style.
Setting Description
Table style presets Applies a preset to configure all table style options.
Cell spacing Sets the padding around text within table cells.
Grid lines Determines how cell borders are displayed.
Show banding Displays a background color to alternating data rows.
Header Formats table headers.
Subheader Formats subheaders (applicable to pivot tables only).
Cell Formats data cells.
Select Revert to default to undo your changes and reset the settings to the default.
Layout settings
The Layout settings control the workbook layout.
Setting Description
Always show grid Toggles the grid lines on and off. By default, the layouts grid is off, to help you visualize the workbook when it is published. When the grid is off, it is still visible when moving elements on the canvas. When the grid is on, the grid always displays when editing or exploring, but is not visible when viewing the workbook.
Custom mobile layout Toggles whether the layout is used for both desktop and mobile devices. For more information, see the Responsive design for desktop and mobile layouts section in Create and manage workbook layouts.
Select Revert to default to undo your changes and reset the settings to the default.
Manage locales
The Manage locales link opens the Manage locales panel. See Manage workbook localization.
RELATED RESOURCES
Compose elements on a page
Customize chart mark tooltip fields
Resources
Sigma home
Blog
Learn
Product FAQs
© 2025 Sigma Computing