Home
Community
QuickStarts
Status
Documentation
API Recipes
API Reference
What's New
Search
START
About Sigma
Start using Sigma
CONNECT
Connect to data sources
Manage connections
ADD DATA
CSV uploads
Input tables
MODEL
Get started with data modeling (Beta)
Data models (Beta)
Model data from database tables
Datasets
Add and manage data
Join data
Transform data
ANALYZE
Workbook basics
Build a workbook
Data elements
Tables
Query
MANAGE WORKBOOKS
Manage a workbook
Workbook templates
Workbook lifecycle
Workbook performance
Workbook security
Manage SQL queries
CHART
Intro to charts
Build a chart
Customize a chart
FILTER
Filter data
Intro to control elements
Work with controls
DESIGN
Design layout
UI elements
Workbook formatting
ADD LOGIC
Intro to actions
Create workbook actions
Configure workbook actions
INTERACT
Interact with workbooks
Interact with charts
Collaborate in workbooks
Search for files in your organization
SHARE
Share a workbook
Share a folder
Share templates
Send or schedule workbook exports
Export data
Manage scheduled exports
About exporting data
CALCULATE
Operators overview
Use AI with formulas (Beta)
Perform AI queries
Functions
Metrics
Custom functions
EMBED
Intro to embedded analytics
Public embedding
Secure embedding
Advanced data security in embeds
Additional embedding configurations
Embed SDK for React
DEVELOP
Sigma API
Plugin development
ADMIN
Administer Sigma
Users and teams
Permissions
Authentication
Third-party integrations
Organization settings
Customize
Localize
Manage assets
Audit and usage
Develop
SUPPORT
Sigma support
Sigma product releases
Supported regions, data platforms, and features
Configure data governance options in input tables
Suggest Edits
Sigma allows you to preserve data integrity and enhance security in input tables through data validation, column protection, and customizable data entry permissions. You can also include row edit history (user and timestamp metadata) and system columns (row ID) for auditing and other data management purposes.
This document explains how to implement these data governance options in empty, CSV, and linked input tables.
System and user requirements
The ability to configure data governance options in input tables requires the following:
You must be using a data platform for which Sigma supports input tables.
📘
For information about Sigma feature compatibility with data platforms, see Region, warehouse, and feature support.
You must be granted Can use data permission for a connection with write access enabled. If using an OAuth-enabled connection, see Configure OAuth with write access for additional requirements.
You must be assigned an account type with the Create input tables and Create, edit, and publish workbooks permissions enabled.
You must be the workbook owner or be granted Can edit workbook permission.
Apply data validation
Apply data validation to individual columns to ensure data accuracy and consistency. Data validation verifies existing values and restricts new inputs to predefined values.
📘
Sigma only supports data validation for text, number, and date columns. Data validation doesn’t apply to checkbox data columns because Sigma already restricts the values to true (selected) or false (cleared).
Click the caret () in a column header to open the column menu, then select Data validation.
In the Data Validation modal, create a manual list of predefined values, or apply the values from a column in an existing data source or element in the workbook:
Create a manual list of values:
In the Value source dropdown, select Create manual list.
In the Define values field, enter values that align with the column’s data type.
💡
Enter individual values, or paste multiple values copied from Sigma or an external source (like a spreadsheet or text document).
Click Save.
Apply values from a column in an existing data source or element:
In the Value source dropdown, select a data source or element.
In the secondary dropdown, select a source column to define the values.
Review the column values, then click Save to proceed.
Sigma checks existing data against the defined values and displays red indicators in cells that contain invalid data.
To replace invalid data, manually enter valid values, or click the caret () in the cell and select a predefined value from the dropdown.
Add/remove column protection
Protect individual columns to prevent edits, like adding data validation, changing the column type, or deleting the column. You cannot insert or delete rows in an input table when column protection is applied to one or more of its columns.
To add column protection, click the caret () in a column header to open the column menu, then select Protect column.
To remove column protection (indicated by a lock icon () in the column header), return to the column menu and select Unprotect column.
Set data entry permission
Set the data entry permission to determine which workbook version (draft or published) allows users to add rows or edit table values.
The ability to create and configure input tables remains limited to the workbook’s draft version (Edit mode). By default, data entry is also restricted to the draft, meaning only users granted Can edit workbook permission can enter and edit input table data. However, Sigma allows you to extend this functionality to users granted Can explore workbook permission by enabling data entry in the workbook’s published version (View and Explore mode).
For information about the data entry workflow in a workbook draft versus a published version, see Edit existing input table columns.
In the element toolbar, click More to open the element menu, then select Set data-entry permission.
In the Set data-entry permission modal, select a permission option, then click Save. You can toggle data entry between the draft and published versions as needed, but they cannot support data entry simultaneously.
Only in Draft version Allows users to edit input table data in Edit mode if they’re granted Can edit workbook permission.
Only on Published version Allows users to edit input table data in View and Explore mode if they’re granted Can explore or Can edit workbook permission.

🚧
Data entry permission updates aren't applied to the input table until the workbook is published.
Add row edit history
Add columns containing row edit history to provide transparency and promote accountability by timestamping edits and identifying users responsible for the changes.
Click the caret () in a column header, then hover over Add new column and select a Row Edit History option:
Last updated by Identifies the user responsible for the latest row-level edit.
Last updated at Records the date and time the row was last edited.
Add row ID
Add a column containing system-generated row IDs to establish unique identifiers that support data management and referential integrity.
Click the caret () in a column header, then hover over Add new column and select Row ID.
📘
System-generated row IDs are only available for empty and CSV input tables, as they are not relevant for linked input tables.
When you duplicate an input table, Sigma duplicates the row IDs for existing rows. This results in identical IDs in the original and copy. However, Sigma generates unique IDs for all new rows added to either table after duplication.
Resources
Sigma home
Blog
Learn
Product FAQs
© 2025 Sigma Computing