Home
Community
QuickStarts
Status
Documentation
API Recipes
API Reference
What's New
Search
START
About Sigma
Start using Sigma
CONNECT
Connect to data sources
Manage connections
ADD DATA
CSV uploads
Input tables
MODEL
Get started with data modeling (Beta)
Data models (Beta)
Model data from database tables
Datasets
Add and manage data
Join data
Transform data
ANALYZE
Workbook basics
Build a workbook
Data elements
Tables
Query
MANAGE WORKBOOKS
Manage a workbook
Workbook templates
Workbook lifecycle
Workbook performance
Workbook security
Manage SQL queries
CHART
Intro to charts
Build a chart
Customize a chart
FILTER
Filter data
Intro to control elements
Work with controls
DESIGN
Design layout
UI elements
Workbook formatting
ADD LOGIC
Intro to actions
Create workbook actions
Configure workbook actions
INTERACT
Interact with workbooks
Interact with charts
Collaborate in workbooks
Search for files in your organization
SHARE
Share a workbook
Share a folder
Share templates
Send or schedule workbook exports
Export data
Manage scheduled exports
About exporting data
CALCULATE
Operators overview
Use AI with formulas (Beta)
Perform AI queries
Functions
Metrics
Custom functions
EMBED
Intro to embedded analytics
Public embedding
Secure embedding
Advanced data security in embeds
Additional embedding configurations
Embed SDK for React
DEVELOP
Sigma API
Plugin development
ADMIN
Administer Sigma
Users and teams
Permissions
Authentication
Third-party integrations
Organization settings
Customize
Localize
Manage assets
Audit and usage
Develop
SUPPORT
Sigma support
Sigma product releases
Supported regions, data platforms, and features
Manage authentication
Suggest Edits
Sigma supports a variety of authentication methods, such as username and password authentication, or SAML or OAuth single sign-on methods. If you use password authentication, two-factor authentication is enabled by default. For more information, see Mandatory two-factor authentication for accounts.
User requirements
To manage authentication methods and options for your organization, you must be assigned the Admin account type.
Authentication methods
Password
Sigma prompts new organization members to create a unique password for their Sigma account that is at least 8 characters long and not a commonly-used or similar password. .
SAML
Sigma authenticates organization member accounts through the single sign-on (SSO) protocol you provide. See SSO with SAML.
SAML or Password
Organization members authenticate with either SSO or a unique password.
OAuth
Sigma authenticates organization member accounts through OAuth single sign-on (SSO).
OAuth or Password
Sigma authenticates organization member accounts through OAuth single sign-on (SSO) or a unique password.
🚧
If you change the authentication method from password to SSO or OAuth, user emails must exactly match for the user to maintain their account.
Manage authentication method and options
To manage the authentication method and options for your organization, do the following:
Open your Admin Portal by selecting Administration in the user menu at the top right of your screen.
Select Authentication in the left navigation panel.
Under Authentication Method & Options, click Edit.
For Authentication Method, select an authentication method from the dropdown menu.
If you select SAML or SAML or password, see Single Sign On with SAML.
If you select OAuth or OAuth or password, see Configure OAuth.
If you select Password, continue to follow these steps.
[optional] To enable guest user accounts, turn on the toggle for Allow Guest Access. See Guest User Accounts.
[optional] To customize how frequently users are prompted to re-authenticate, set a Session Length in Hours. This setting only applies to users logging in with SAML or a password.
[optional] To authorize anyone with an email from one or more domains to create an account in your organization without a personalized invite, specify one or more comma-separated email domains under Company Domain Signup. For more details, see Company domain signup.
After configuring authentication for your organization, click Save.
Company domain signup
When you use an authentication method that supports Password authentication, you can choose to add domains to an allowlist. By default, new users can only sign up when they receive an invitation. Adding your company's email domain lets anyone with a company email address create a Sigma account without a personalized invitation.
Sigma prompts new users to enter their email from a domain on the allowlist. After confirming their email, the user can create an account and register as a Sigma user.
Admin-initiated password reset
If you are assigned the Admin account type and your organization is using a password-based authentication method, you can send password reset emails to users in your organization:
In the Admin Portal, click the People tab.
On the Members tab, search or browse to locate the user. You can search by name or email address.
For the user, click More > Reset user password.
Sigma sends a reset password email to the user. The email informs the user that the organization admin has requested that they reset their password.
Bulk password reset
If you are assigned the Admin account type and your organization is using a password-based authentication method, you can initiate a password reset for multiple users.
In the Admin Portal, click the People tab.
On the Members tab, for each user, select the checkbox to the left of their name.
In the toolbar, click Reset password.
Review your selection and click Confirm.
The selected users receive an email informing them that the admin has requested that they reset their password.
RELATED RESOURCES
Single Sign-On with SAML
Invite people to your organization
User account types
Single Sign-On with Sigma and Okta (QuickStarts)
Configure OAuth
Resources
Sigma home
Blog
Learn
Product FAQs
© 2025 Sigma Computing