Text elements
Suggest Edits
Requirements
To add and edit text elements, you must have Can Edit access to the individual workbook.
Create a Text Element
Before you start: This action is only available in Edit mode. To begin editing, click Edit in the top right corner of the page; see Workbook lifecycle.
Open the workbook's ADD NEW panel, accessible from the + button located in the sidebar on the left side of the page.
On the ELEMENTS tab, under UI ELEMENTS, click TEXT. 
Your new text element will appear selected on the page.
Begin typing to enter text.
Use the toolbar at the top of the page to add custom formatting or hyperlinks.
Use your cursor to drag and drop the element anywhere on the page canvas.
Apply Formatting to a Text Element
Before you start: This action is only available in Edit mode. To begin editing, click Edit in the top right corner of the page; see Workbook lifecycle.
Click the element to select it.
Select the text you want to format.
Use the toolbar at the top of the page to select your format option(s).
Add Dynamic Text Based on Your Data
When editing a workbook, you can inject dynamic text into text elements. Dynamic text is text generated based on a formula. This is helpful if you want to display element headers or inline text that automatically updates based on your data.
Before you start: This action is only available in Edit mode. To begin editing, click Edit in the top right corner of the page; see Workbook lifecycle.
Select your text element, and position your cursor where you would like to add dynamic text.
Hit = on your keyboard,
or
Click the function () button, located in the workbook's toolbar.

A formula bar will pop up over your text element.
Type a formula, just as you would in the formula bar of any data element. Start typing the name of the object/table with your desired field, and Sigma will provide suggestions for you to choose from.
Hit Enter on your keyboard.
[optional] To apply formatting:
Select your new dynamic text.
Choose a format option from the toolbar.
RELATED RESOURCES
Intro to UI Elements
Did this page help you?
Yes
No