Home
Community
QuickStarts
Status
Documentation
API Recipes
API Reference
What's New
Search
START
About Sigma
Start using Sigma
CONNECT
Connect to data sources
Manage connections
ADD DATA
CSV uploads
Input tables
MODEL
Get started with data modeling (Beta)
Data models (Beta)
Model data from database tables
Datasets
Add and manage data
Join data
Transform data
ANALYZE
Workbook basics
Build a workbook
Data elements
Tables
Query
MANAGE WORKBOOKS
Manage a workbook
Workbook templates
Workbook lifecycle
Workbook performance
Workbook security
Manage SQL queries
CHART
Intro to charts
Build a chart
Customize a chart
FILTER
Filter data
Intro to control elements
Work with controls
DESIGN
Design layout
UI elements
Workbook formatting
ADD LOGIC
Intro to actions
Create workbook actions
Configure workbook actions
INTERACT
Interact with workbooks
Interact with charts
Collaborate in workbooks
Search for files in your organization
SHARE
Share a workbook
Share a folder
Share templates
Send or schedule workbook exports
Export data
Manage scheduled exports
About exporting data
CALCULATE
Operators overview
Use AI with formulas (Beta)
Perform AI queries
Functions
Metrics
Custom functions
EMBED
Intro to embedded analytics
Public embedding
Secure embedding
Advanced data security in embeds
Additional embedding configurations
Embed SDK for React
DEVELOP
Sigma API
Plugin development
ADMIN
Administer Sigma
Users and teams
Permissions
Authentication
Third-party integrations
Organization settings
Customize
Localize
Manage assets
Audit and usage
Develop
SUPPORT
Sigma support
Sigma product releases
Supported regions, data platforms, and features
Restrict export recipients and frequency
Suggest Edits
As an admin of a Sigma organization, you can configure export settings for users in your organization.
You can restrict the available frequency options and restrict the available recipients of exports:
Restrict the frequency of scheduled exports.
Define authorized domains that can receive emails, Google Sheets, and Google Drive exports.
Restrict email recipients so that users can only email exports to other members of their Sigma teams.
If no domains are authorized, or the teams restriction is disabled, users can export reports to any recipients.
Requirements
Only users assigned the Admin account type can configure export settings.
Restrict scheduled export frequency
🚩
This documentation describes a public beta feature and is under construction. This documentation should not be considered part of our published documentation until this notice, and the corresponding Beta flag on the feature in the Sigma service, are removed. As with any beta feature, the feature discussed below is subject to quick, iterative changes. The latest experience in the Sigma service might differ from the contents of this document.
Beta features are subject to the Beta features disclaimer.
To restrict the frequency options available to users when scheduling exports, do the following:
Open the Administration portal.
Go to Exports, then select the Settings tab.
For Export frequency, click Edit.
Turn on the Restrict export frequency switch, then configure the frequencies to restrict. For example:
Choose to restrict daily exports to multiple times per day, every 30 minutes. This option prevents users from scheduling an export that runs more than once every 30 minutes per day.
Choose to restrict daily exports to multiple times per day, every 8 hours. This option prevents users from scheduling an export that runs more than once every 8 hours per day.
Choose to restrict daily exports to once per day. This option prevents users from scheduling an export that runs more than once per day.
📘
When this option is enabled, users cannot configure custom cron schedules.
Click Save.
📘
Existing export schedules are unaffected by this restriction. Select the Scheduled exports tab to review existing export schedules in your organization that might be occurring more frequently than wanted. See Manage organization schedules.
Restrict export domains
To restrict the recipients of exports to only users and email addresses from authorized domains:
Open the Administration portal.
Go to Exports, then select the Settings tab.
Review the Export authentication section for the current state:
Authorized Domains: None means that users in your organization can export reports to any email address.
If any domains are listed for Authorized domains, users in your organization are limited to emailing only addresses for the listed domains.
To add new or modify existing domains, click Edit.
Enter one or more authorized domains, separating values with a comma.
Click Save.
Restrict recipients to team members
🚩
This documentation describes a public beta feature and is under construction. This documentation should not be considered part of our published documentation until this notice, and the corresponding Beta flag on the feature in the Sigma service, are removed. As with any beta feature, the feature discussed below is subject to quick, iterative changes. The latest experience in the Sigma service might differ from the contents of this document.
Beta features are subject to the Beta features disclaimer.
To restrict the recipients of exports to only users on the same team as the user sending or scheduling the export:
Open the Administration portal.
Go to Exports, then select the Settings tab.
In the Export authentication section, click Edit.
To restrict recipients, turn on the Restrict recipient list to members on same team switch.
Click Save.
RELATED RESOURCES
Send and schedule exports from workbooks
Resources
Sigma home
Blog
Learn
Product FAQs
© 2025 Sigma Computing