Home
Community
QuickStarts
Status
Documentation
API Recipes
API Reference
What's New
Search
START
About Sigma
Start using Sigma
CONNECT
Connect to data sources
Manage connections
ADD DATA
CSV uploads
Input tables
MODEL
Get started with data modeling (Beta)
Data models (Beta)
Model data from database tables
Datasets
Add and manage data
Join data
Transform data
ANALYZE
Workbook basics
Build a workbook
Data elements
Tables
Query
MANAGE WORKBOOKS
Manage a workbook
Workbook templates
Workbook lifecycle
Workbook performance
Workbook security
Manage SQL queries
CHART
Intro to charts
Build a chart
Customize a chart
FILTER
Filter data
Intro to control elements
Work with controls
DESIGN
Design layout
UI elements
Workbook formatting
ADD LOGIC
Intro to actions
Create workbook actions
Configure workbook actions
INTERACT
Interact with workbooks
Interact with charts
Collaborate in workbooks
Search for files in your organization
SHARE
Share a workbook
Share a folder
Share templates
Send or schedule workbook exports
Export data
Manage scheduled exports
About exporting data
CALCULATE
Operators overview
Use AI with formulas (Beta)
Perform AI queries
Functions
Metrics
Custom functions
EMBED
Intro to embedded analytics
Public embedding
Secure embedding
Advanced data security in embeds
Additional embedding configurations
Embed SDK for React
DEVELOP
Sigma API
Plugin development
ADMIN
Administer Sigma
Users and teams
Permissions
Authentication
Third-party integrations
Organization settings
Customize
Localize
Manage assets
Audit and usage
Develop
SUPPORT
Sigma support
Sigma product releases
Supported regions, data platforms, and features
Restore input table access for a Snowflake connection or user
Suggest Edits
When an admin changes the Snowflake role configured for a connection in Sigma, insufficient role privileges can interrupt input table access and prevent users from creating new input tables or saving edits to existing ones. This error can also occur when a connection uses OAuth and a user's role is reassigned within Snowflake.
This document describes how to determine the root cause of the error and grant the necessary privileges to restore input table access for a connection or user.
System and user requirements
The ability to restore input table access for a connection or user requires the following:
You must be assigned the Admin account type in Sigma.
You must be able to grant privileges on objects in Snowflake.
Identify the error's root cause and resolution
When a Snowflake role lacks privileges to access input table data and the edit log (also known as the write-ahead log or WAL), impacted users cannot create new input tables or save edits to existing ones in Sigma. A workbook displays a "SQL compilation error" message indicating that the object doesn't exist or is not authorized, and Sigma sends an "Input table edits failed" system email to all organization admins and the user who encountered the error. The email sent to admins about this error indicates that "a user could not save edits to an input table due to insufficient role privileges."
The resolution to restore input table access depends on the connection's authentication method and whether the role applies to the connection or a specific user accessing the connection. Use the following table to identify the error's root cause and resolution, then refer to the Retrieve the role and write-back schema and Update role privileges in Snowflake sections of this document.
Connection authentication Error message object prefix 1 Root cause Resolution in Snowflake
Non-OAuth
(basic or key pair) SIGDS or SIGDS_WAL The role used by the connection cannot access tables containing input table data and the edit log In the write-back schema, grant the following privileges to the role used by the connection:
On tables containing input table data (SIGDS prefix), grant ALL PRIVILEGES
On the table containing the edit log (SIGDS_WAL prefix), grant INSERT and SELECT
OAuth SIGDS_WAL The role used by the connection's service account cannot access the table containing the edit log In the write-back schema, grant the following privileges to the role used by the connection's service account:
On the table containing the edit log (SIGDS_WAL prefix), grant INSERT and SELECT
OAuth SIGDS The role assigned to the user cannot access the tables containing input table data In the write-back schema, grant the following privileges to the role assigned to the user:
On tables containing input table data (SIGDS prefix), grant ALL PRIVILEGES
1
Sigma displays the error message in the workbook (when the user encounters the error) and includes it in the system emails. In the error message, a SIGDS prefix identifies a table containing data saved to an input table, and a SIGDS_WAL prefix identifies the table containing the edit log.
Retrieve the role and write-back schema
To ensure you update the role privileges accurately in Snowflake, first retrieve relevant details from Sigma.
Non-OAuth connection
When the error occurs on a non-OAuth connection, retrieve the name of the role used by the connection and the name of the write-back schema.
If you received a system email reporting a failed input table edit, click View connection in the email to directly access the connection overview in the Sigma Administration portal. Otherwise, go to Administration > Connections in Sigma and select the applicable Snowflake connection.
In the Connection Credentials section of the connection overview, reference the Role field to retrieve the name of the Snowflake role that requires privilege grants.
In the Write Access section, reference the Write schema field to retrieve the name of the write-back schema containing input table data and the edit log.
OAuth connection
When the error occurs on an OAuth connection, retrieve the name of the role used by the connection's service account (only if the root cause is at the service account role level) and the name of the write-back schema.
If you received a system email reporting a failed input table edit, click View connection in the email to directly access the connection overview in the Sigma Administration portal. Otherwise, go to Administration > Connections in Sigma and select the applicable Snowflake connection.
Retrieve the name of the Snowflake role that requires privilege grants:
If the root cause of the error is at the service account role level, go to the Connection Credentials section of the connection overview, then reference the Role field.
If the root cause of the error is at the user role level, reference the user's email address in the system email, then identify the user's default role assigned in Snowflake.
In the Write Access section, reference the Write destinations field to retrieve the name of the write-back schema containing input table data and the edit log.
📘
If the connection writes to multiple destinations, reference the error message in the system email and retrieve the specific write-back schema from the destination path. You can also access the workbook and refresh the input table, then retrieve the name of the applicable write-back schema from the input table query details.
Update role privileges in Snowflake
Use the role and write-back schema retrieved in the previous section to implement the applicable resolution outlined in the Identify the input table error root cause and resolution section of this document.
You can grant privileges on tables in Snowflake using SQL or Snowsight. See Grant privileges to the role in Snowflake's documentation for details.
💡
Before granting privileges on tables, confirm that the role requires access to the input table data and is not restricted intentionally.
If you cannot locate the identified write-back schema or table in Snowflake, the object might no longer exist. If the schema or edit log was unintentionally deleted, you must create a new connection or recreate the edit log table. Contact Support for more information.
Resources
Sigma home
Blog
Learn
Product FAQs
© 2025 Sigma Computing