Home
Community
QuickStarts
Status
Documentation
API Recipes
API Reference
What's New
Search
START
About Sigma
Start using Sigma
CONNECT
Connect to data sources
Manage connections
ADD DATA
CSV uploads
Input tables
MODEL
Get started with data modeling (Beta)
Data models (Beta)
Model data from database tables
Datasets
Add and manage data
Join data
Transform data
ANALYZE
Workbook basics
Build a workbook
Data elements
Tables
Query
MANAGE WORKBOOKS
Manage a workbook
Workbook templates
Workbook lifecycle
Workbook performance
Workbook security
Manage SQL queries
CHART
Intro to charts
Build a chart
Customize a chart
FILTER
Filter data
Intro to control elements
Work with controls
DESIGN
Design layout
UI elements
Workbook formatting
ADD LOGIC
Intro to actions
Create workbook actions
Configure workbook actions
INTERACT
Interact with workbooks
Interact with charts
Collaborate in workbooks
Search for files in your organization
SHARE
Share a workbook
Share a folder
Share templates
Send or schedule workbook exports
Export data
Manage scheduled exports
About exporting data
CALCULATE
Operators overview
Use AI with formulas (Beta)
Perform AI queries
Functions
Metrics
Custom functions
EMBED
Intro to embedded analytics
Public embedding
Secure embedding
Advanced data security in embeds
Additional embedding configurations
Embed SDK for React
DEVELOP
Sigma API
Plugin development
ADMIN
Administer Sigma
Users and teams
Permissions
Authentication
Third-party integrations
Organization settings
Customize
Localize
Manage assets
Audit and usage
Develop
SUPPORT
Sigma support
Sigma product releases
Supported regions, data platforms, and features
Edit existing input table columns
Suggest Edits
When you add or modify values in existing input table columns, the workflow depends on the individual element’s data entry permission.
The default permission allows you to edit input table data in the workbook’s draft version (Edit mode) only. However, authorized users can change the data entry permission and instead restrict editing to the published version (View and Explore mode).
This document explains how to edit input table data in existing columns based on the element’s data entry permission. For more information about input tables, see Intro to input tables and Create and manage input tables.
User requirements
The ability to edit input table data in existing columns requires the following:
Draft version (Edit mode)
You must be assigned an account type with the Edit Workbook permission enabled.
You must be the workbook owner or be granted Can edit workbook permission.
Published version (View or Explore mode)
You must be assigned an account type with the Explore Workbook permission enabled.
You must be the workbook owner or be granted Can explore or Can edit workbook permission.
📘
The Viewer account type license doesn't support the required Explore Workbook permission (a prerequisite for Can explore or Can edit workbook permissions). Therefore, while users assigned account types with the Viewer license can open a workbook in View mode, they cannot edit input tables that allow data entry in the published version.
See Create and manage input tables for permissions required to create new input tables and manage table structure and advanced configurations (data validation, column protection, data entry permissions, etc.).
Identify editable input tables
Because data entry permission is configured at the individual input table level, a workbook may contain some input tables that allow you to edit data in the draft version and others that allow you to edit data in the published version.
When the data entry permission restricts editing to the published version, Sigma displays an indicator in the element to signal the change from the default behavior. The indicator can help you differentiate between input table data you can and cannot edit.
Draft version (Edit mode)
In Edit mode, the input table displays a Data Entry tag to indicate that you cannot edit the data in the workbook’s draft version. To edit the data, you must open the published version in View or Explore mode. Alternatively, if you’re granted Can edit workbook permission, you can change the input table’s data entry permission.
The data entry permission only affects data editing in existing columns. All other input table functionality (column management, data validation, column protection, etc.) remains limited to the workbook’s draft version.
Draft Version
Can edit data Cannot edit data
Published version (View and Explore mode)
In View and Explore mode, the input table displays an Edit Data button to indicate that you can edit the data in the workbook’s published version. For more information, see Edit data in published version in this document.
Published Version
Can edit data Cannot edit data
Edit data in draft version
Open a workbook in Edit mode and locate the input table you want to edit.
📘
If the element displays a Data Entry tag, you can only edit the data in the published version.
[optional] To add a row to the bottom of the input table, click the last row.
📘
You can only add rows to empty input tables. Linked input table rows and row count are defined by the primary key column.
Edit input table values:
To enter data through keyboard entry, select a cell and enter a value.
To paste values copied from Sigma or an external source (like a spreadsheet or text document), select a cell or range of cells, then right-click the selection and select Paste.
💡
You can select and paste values in up to 50,000 cells at once (2,000 rows and 25 columns), including column headers.
To select a predefined value, click the caret () in a cell, then select an option in the dropdown.
To save the input table edits to the workbook’s published version, click Publish in the workbook header.
Edit data in published version
Open a workbook in Explore mode and locate the input table you want to edit.
Click Edit Data to enable editing.
[optional] To add a row to the bottom of the input table, click the last row.
📘
You can only add rows to empty input tables. Linked input table rows and row count are defined by the primary key column.
Edit input table values:
To enter data through keyboard entry, select a cell and enter a value.
To paste values copied from Sigma or an external source (like a spreadsheet or text document), select a cell or range of cells, then right-click the selection and select Paste.
💡
You can select and paste values in up to 50,000 cells at once (2,000 rows and 25 columns).
This doesn’t include column headers since column naming is limited to the workbook draft version.
To select a predefined value, click the caret () in a cell, then select an option in the dropdown.
Sigma displays yellow markers in cells that contain unsaved changes. To manually commit your edits to the workbook’s published version, click Save.
RELATED RESOURCES
Intro to input tables
Create and manage input tables
Restore input table access for a Snowflake connection or user
Resources
Sigma home
Blog
Learn
Product FAQs
© 2025 Sigma Computing