Home
Community
QuickStarts
Status
Documentation
API Recipes
API Reference
What's New
Search
START
About Sigma
Start using Sigma
CONNECT
Connect to data sources
Manage connections
ADD DATA
CSV uploads
Input tables
MODEL
Get started with data modeling (Beta)
Data models (Beta)
Model data from database tables
Datasets
Add and manage data
Join data
Transform data
ANALYZE
Workbook basics
Build a workbook
Data elements
Tables
Query
MANAGE WORKBOOKS
Manage a workbook
Workbook templates
Workbook lifecycle
Workbook performance
Workbook security
Manage SQL queries
CHART
Intro to charts
Build a chart
Customize a chart
FILTER
Filter data
Intro to control elements
Work with controls
DESIGN
Design layout
UI elements
Workbook formatting
ADD LOGIC
Intro to actions
Create workbook actions
Configure workbook actions
INTERACT
Interact with workbooks
Interact with charts
Collaborate in workbooks
Search for files in your organization
SHARE
Share a workbook
Share a folder
Share templates
Send or schedule workbook exports
Export data
Manage scheduled exports
About exporting data
CALCULATE
Operators overview
Use AI with formulas (Beta)
Perform AI queries
Functions
Metrics
Custom functions
EMBED
Intro to embedded analytics
Public embedding
Secure embedding
Advanced data security in embeds
Additional embedding configurations
Embed SDK for React
DEVELOP
Sigma API
Plugin development
ADMIN
Administer Sigma
Users and teams
Permissions
Authentication
Third-party integrations
Organization settings
Customize
Localize
Manage assets
Audit and usage
Develop
SUPPORT
Sigma support
Sigma product releases
Supported regions, data platforms, and features
Add a custom color scale
Suggest Edits
When you format a visualization, or conditionally format a table column, you can apply a single color or a color scale, among other options. Sigma includes several predefined color palettes, but you can also create your own:
Choose a predefined color scale palette
Set a custom color scale palette
You can add a color scale palette at the organization level as part of a theme, at the workbook level in the workbook settings, or at the element level for a specific data element. The following elements support color scales:
Bar chart
Funnel chart
Gauge chart
Geography map
Scatter plot
Tables, pivot tables, and input tables with conditional formatting.
Choose a predefined color scale palette
Open the color options for the chart, or open conditional formatting options for a table and choose color scale.
2.Select the dropdown menu for the color palette to review other color choices.
For the selected Palette radio button, use the dropdown menu to choose between Sequential (default) or Diverging palettes.
Select a palette.
(Optional) To reverse the default colors, turn on the switch to Reverse color scale.
(Optional) To customize the color at specific data values, turn on the switch for Customize domain, then specify a Minimum value, Middle value, and Maximum value in the data.
(Optional) To use distinct colors instead of a gradient color scale, specify a number of steps to use with the color palette, from None to use a color gradient, to 5 steps. You can use this option with the color domain settings to granularly define the color settings for specific data values.
To create a custom color palette to use for sequential or diverging scales, see Set a custom color scale palette.
For conditional formatting only, to apply formatting to null values, you can turn on the switch to Format null values as zero. The data value does not update but cells with null values reflect conditional formatting.
Set a custom color scale palette
To set a custom color scale palette for a data element or conditional formatting of table cells, do the following:
Open the color options for the chart, or open conditional formatting options for a table and choose color scale.
Select the dropdown menu for the color palette to review other color choices.
(Optional) Select a default palette.
Select Custom to configure a custom color palette. The default colors match the default palette selected when you opened the custom option, or the default palette set in the selected workbook theme.
For each color that you want to customize, select the color block, then choose a new color:
Select a standard color.
Enter a hex code for the color.
Use the eyedropper.
Choose a color with the color picker.
(Optional) To reverse the colors, turn on the switch to Reverse color scale.
(Optional) To customize the color at specific data values, turn on the switch for Customize domain, then specify a Minimum value, Middle value, and Maximum value in the data.
(Optional) To use distinct colors instead of a gradient color scale, specify a number of steps to use with the color palette, Choose None to use a color gradient, or choose up to 5 steps, depending on your data values. You can use this option with the color domain settings to more granularly define the color settings for specific data values.
To make a custom color scale available to other elements in the workbook, set a custom scale of sequential colors or diverging colors in the workbook settings. This sets a default custom color scale. You can override it on a specific element. After overriding a workbook-level or theme-level custom color scale, you can choose Revert to default to use the workbook-level or theme-level custom color scale again.
Resources
Sigma home
Blog
Learn
Product FAQs
© 2025 Sigma Computing