Home
Community
QuickStarts
Status
Documentation
API Recipes
API Reference
What's New
Search
START
About Sigma
Start using Sigma
CONNECT
Connect to data sources
Manage connections
ADD DATA
CSV uploads
Input tables
MODEL
Get started with data modeling (Beta)
Data models (Beta)
Model data from database tables
Datasets
Add and manage data
Join data
Transform data
ANALYZE
Workbook basics
Build a workbook
Data elements
Tables
Query
MANAGE WORKBOOKS
Manage a workbook
Workbook templates
Workbook lifecycle
Workbook performance
Workbook security
Manage SQL queries
CHART
Intro to charts
Build a chart
Customize a chart
FILTER
Filter data
Intro to control elements
Work with controls
DESIGN
Design layout
UI elements
Workbook formatting
ADD LOGIC
Intro to actions
Create workbook actions
Configure workbook actions
INTERACT
Interact with workbooks
Interact with charts
Collaborate in workbooks
Search for files in your organization
SHARE
Share a workbook
Share a folder
Share templates
Send or schedule workbook exports
Export data
Manage scheduled exports
About exporting data
CALCULATE
Operators overview
Use AI with formulas (Beta)
Perform AI queries
Functions
Metrics
Custom functions
EMBED
Intro to embedded analytics
Public embedding
Secure embedding
Advanced data security in embeds
Additional embedding configurations
Embed SDK for React
DEVELOP
Sigma API
Plugin development
ADMIN
Administer Sigma
Users and teams
Permissions
Authentication
Third-party integrations
Organization settings
Customize
Localize
Manage assets
Audit and usage
Develop
SUPPORT
Sigma support
Sigma product releases
Supported regions, data platforms, and features
Manage scheduled exports
Suggest Edits
You can view and manage scheduled exports, such as to stagger the schedules of exports, remove no longer needed scheduled exports, or to update the configuration of a scheduled export.
Manage schedules for a workbook.
Manage scheduled exports that you own or subscribe to.
As an admin, manage all scheduled exports for your organization.
💡
If you have multiple scheduled exports, it's a best practice to stagger the schedules. Staggering schedules helps to reduce the load on Sigma and on the data warehouse.
User requirements
The ability to send and schedule workbook exports requires the following:
To export to a specific destination, you must be assigned an account type with the export permission for that destination enabled.
To schedule a workbook export, you must be assigned an account type with the Schedule export permission enabled.
You must be the workbook owner or be granted Can explore or Can edit workbook permission.
📘
Additional requirements and permissions might apply depending on the export destination.
Manage schedules for a workbook
From the workbook menu (), select Schedule exports.
The Schedule Exports dialog opens.
You can review the list of scheduled exports for the workbook, reviewing the times and types of exports to identify overlapping schedules or recipients.
For a specific scheduled export, you can click the More menu to rename the schedule, edit the schedule, send the configured scheduled export immediately, pause the scheduled export, or delete it.
Edit or delete a schedule
From the workbook menu (), select Schedule exports.
The Schedule Exports dialog opens.
Locate the schedule you want to send and click the More menu.
Click Delete to delete the schedule or Edit to make changes to the schedule.
Send a scheduled export on demand
If you want to send a scheduled export without waiting for the next scheduled run of the export, you can send it on demand.
From the workbook menu (), select Schedule exports.
Locate the schedule that you want to send and click the More menu (), then select Send now.
Pause or resume a scheduled export
You can manually pause and resume scheduled exports.
From the workbook menu (), select Schedule exports.
The Schedule Exports dialog opens.
Click the More menu of the Actions column and select Pause.
In the Status column, the status changes to Paused.
To resume an export, repeat the above steps but choose Resume from the More menu.
Auto-paused scheduled exports
If a scheduled export fails more than 5 times in 7 or more days and therefore none of the exports succeed, Sigma pauses the export and the user receives an email notification. The email notification contains the following message:
Document export failed. Sigma has paused one of your scheduled exports. Please use the below link to the workbook to check details.
You can manually resume the export. The Status column shows Paused with an exclamation point. To resume the paused export, choose Resume from the More menu in the Actions column.
Manage your scheduled exports and subscriptions
From your user profile, you can view and manage scheduled exports that you own or receive.
If you are a Sigma admin, you can view or manage all scheduled exports for your organization. See Manage organization schedules.
View and manage schedules in your profile
To view and manage scheduled exports from your profile, do the following:
Click the user menu in the top menu bar.
From the dropdown menu, select Profile.
From your user profile, select Scheduled Exports.
Choose which scheduled exports you want to view and manage:
Select Owned by you to view and manage scheduled exports created by you. If you're a Sigma admin, you also see schedules inherited from organization members that you deactivated.
Select Your subscriptions to view and manage exports sent to your email address, whether owned by you or others.
You can search, filter, and sort the listed schedules to more easily locate the schedule you want to find.
To make changes to a specific schedule, select the name of the workbook to open the workbook and manage the schedule. See Manage schedules for a workbook.
Delete a schedule
To delete a schedule that you own:
Click the user menu, then from the dropdown menu, select Profile.
Select Scheduled Exports.
Locate the scheduled export that you want to delete, then click More > Delete.
Unsubscribe from a subscription
To unsubscribe from a subscription to a scheduled export:
Click the user menu, then from the dropdown menu, select Profile.
Select Scheduled Exports.
Select Your subscriptions and locate the subscription that you want to unsubscribe from.
Click More > Unsubscribe.
RELATED RESOURCES
Send and schedule exports from workbooks
Manage Organization Schedules
Resources
Sigma home
Blog
Learn
Product FAQs
© 2025 Sigma Computing