Home
Community
QuickStarts
Status
Documentation
API Recipes
API Reference
What's New
Search
START
About Sigma
Start using Sigma
CONNECT
Connect to data sources
Manage connections
ADD DATA
CSV uploads
Input tables
MODEL
Get started with data modeling (Beta)
Data models (Beta)
Model data from database tables
Datasets
Add and manage data
Join data
Transform data
ANALYZE
Workbook basics
Build a workbook
Data elements
Tables
Query
MANAGE WORKBOOKS
Manage a workbook
Workbook templates
Workbook lifecycle
Workbook performance
Workbook security
Manage SQL queries
CHART
Intro to charts
Build a chart
Customize a chart
FILTER
Filter data
Intro to control elements
Work with controls
DESIGN
Design layout
UI elements
Workbook formatting
ADD LOGIC
Intro to actions
Create workbook actions
Configure workbook actions
INTERACT
Interact with workbooks
Interact with charts
Collaborate in workbooks
Search for files in your organization
SHARE
Share a workbook
Share a folder
Share templates
Send or schedule workbook exports
Export data
Manage scheduled exports
About exporting data
CALCULATE
Operators overview
Use AI with formulas (Beta)
Perform AI queries
Functions
Metrics
Custom functions
EMBED
Intro to embedded analytics
Public embedding
Secure embedding
Advanced data security in embeds
Additional embedding configurations
Embed SDK for React
DEVELOP
Sigma API
Plugin development
ADMIN
Administer Sigma
Users and teams
Permissions
Authentication
Third-party integrations
Organization settings
Customize
Localize
Manage assets
Audit and usage
Develop
SUPPORT
Sigma support
Sigma product releases
Supported regions, data platforms, and features
Intro to actions
Suggest Edits
Actions are user-defined interactivity that you can configure within and across workbook elements. By automating responses to specific user interactions, you can create efficient workbook workflows that produce quick and relevant data insights.
This document introduces action conditions, triggers, and effects. For information about using actions, see the Related resources section at the end of this page.
Understanding actions
An individual action consists of a condition (optional), a trigger, and an effect.
Condition (optional) A rule that determines when an action or sequence of actions1 executes.
Trigger A user interaction with a specific element (the trigger element) that initiates the response of one or more actions or sequences of actions.
Effect The defined response to the user interaction.
1
You can configure a single action on a workbook element or a sequence of multiple actions that execute in a specified order.
Action conditions
You can define an optional condition for any action sequence. The condition can be a custom formula or, if you are configuring an action for a control, the condition can be the value of the control.
For more information, see Make an action conditional.
Action triggers
Action triggers can be configured on most element types. The following table describes the supported trigger types.
Element type Trigger type (user interaction)
Table, pivot table, or input table On select: user selects a cell in a specific column.
Visualization On select: user selects a data point or category on the chart
UI element
(button or image only) On click: user clicks the element.
Control element On change: user changes the control value.
Modal
On click - primary: user clicks the primary button.
On click - secondary: user clicks the secondary button.
On close: user closes the modal.
Action effects
The following table lists the actions you can configure on a trigger element and describes the corresponding effect.
Type Action Effect
Navigation Open URL Navigates to an external link or destination within Sigma.
Open Sigma doc Navigates to a different Sigma workbook.
Navigate in this workbook Shifts the focus to the top of a specific page or an individual element in the current workbook.
Open modal Opens a modal in the current workbook.
Close modal Closes an open modal.
Control value management Set control value Sets the value of a specific control element in the current workbook.
Clear control Clears the values of a specific control element in the current workbook.
Element modification Modify element Modifies an element's columns, groupings, properties, or axis scale.
Refresh element
Refreshes the data of a specific element in the current workbook.
This action doesn’t apply to materialized elements.
Input table modification Insert rows in input tables Inserts a new row in an existing input table.
Data transfer Download and export Initiates a direct download or an export to email, Slack, webhook, or cloud storage.
Embedding Generate outbound embed iframe event Triggers an embed iframe event.
Action configurations
Actions feature versatile configurations to support responses that are highly relevant to your specific needs and preferences.
Examples:
Configure the Open URL action to open a static link, or utilize dynamic text to generate URLs that adjust to control or column values in the current workbook.
Configure the Set control value action to filter the trigger element itself, or create a cross-element action that filters a child element.
Configure the Open Sigma doc action to open another workbook in its published state, or pass values to control elements in the destination workbook to open a custom, drilled-down view.
For detailed information about configuring the different types of actions, see the Related resources section at the end of this page.
RELATED RESOURCES
Create actions that navigate to destinations
Create actions that manage control values
Create actions that modify or refresh elements
Create actions that download and export data
View and manage existing actions
Make an action conditional
Use variables in actions
Resources
Sigma home
Blog
Learn
Product FAQs
© 2025 Sigma Computing