Escalate critical issues
Suggest Edits
From Monday through Friday, 2:00 am to 6:00 pm Pacific Time (PT), Sigma's in-app live chat platform is the best method of reaching a Support Engineer. Outside of support hours, you can use the live chat platform to escalate a support ticket. You can also submit a support request if it is after support hours, or if you prefer email communications.
This document explains the escalation flow and best practices, how to escalate an issue, and common escalation criteria categories.
Escalation flow and best practices
What types of issues can be escalated?
Critical issues include those that block you from accessing or using Sigma, such as core Sigma features not working, data and visualization-related issues, or internal and external security-related issues.
What happens when I escalate an issue?
When you escalate an issue outside of live chat hours, Sigma's support system immediately notifies an on-call Support Engineer by phone. Before proceeding with this option, please ensure your issue is critical with no viable workaround.
What are some best practices for escalation?
When escalating an issue, best practices include:
Verifying the impact and severity of the issue by:
Identifying if there are any workarounds.
Confirming whether or not other team members are experiencing the same issue.
Checking if the issue persists in other browsers or incognito mode.
Consulting an organization admin to confirm the severity of the issue.
Being descriptive and detailed: Provide as much information as possible about the issue you're experiencing, including screenshots, recordings, error logs, and applicable error IDs. The more information you provide, the faster a Support Engineer can assist you.
How do I escalate an issue if live chat and/or the support portal is down?
If live chat is unavailable, please submit a support request in the Support portal. If the Support portal is also down, contact Sigma Computing at support@sigmacomputing.com.
Escalate via live chat
Select the Help menu and select Live chat.
Select Send us a message.
If using live chat Monday through Friday between 2:00 am and 6:00 pm PT, send a message with details about the issue and wait for a Support Engineer to respond. If using live chat outside supported hours, select Escalate via support ticket and respond to the automated chat prompts:
If you have a viable rollback version or workaround, you're asked to describe the issue and allow a Support Engineer to respond when business hours resume.
If you don't have a viable rollback version or workaround, you're asked to select the affected product area, enter a ticket subject, and describe the issue. Sigma will then create a support ticket and share a link to it in the chat. An on-call Support Engineer is notified of the incident and typically responds within 30 minutes.
📘
Inability to access the linked ticket may indicate that you don't have an existing Sigma Support account. If this is the case, Sigma creates an account and sends password setup instructions to the email associated with your Sigma user account.
Escalation categories
When you use live chat to escalate an issue outside support hours, you're prompted to select your escalation criteria. The following is a non-exhaustive list of categories provided and some example issues:
Escalation criteria category Example issues
Core features not working
Errors logging in or authenticating
Issues analyzing and editing workbooks (such as queries not loading)
Embeds displaying significant errors or not rendering
Data and visualization related issues
Incorrect data output
Visualizations not displaying in custom plugins
Readability being impeded by chart rendering issues
Security-related issues (internal or external)
Row level security exposure
Access control or credential leaks
Malware activity
Authentication bypass
RELATED RESOURCES
Sigma support