Home
Community
QuickStarts
Status
Documentation
API Recipes
API Reference
What's New
Search
START
About Sigma
Start using Sigma
CONNECT
Connect to data sources
Manage connections
ADD DATA
CSV uploads
Input tables
MODEL
Get started with data modeling (Beta)
Data models (Beta)
Model data from database tables
Datasets
Add and manage data
Join data
Transform data
ANALYZE
Workbook basics
Build a workbook
Data elements
Tables
Query
MANAGE WORKBOOKS
Manage a workbook
Workbook templates
Workbook lifecycle
Workbook performance
Workbook security
Manage SQL queries
CHART
Intro to charts
Build a chart
Customize a chart
FILTER
Filter data
Intro to control elements
Work with controls
DESIGN
Design layout
UI elements
Workbook formatting
ADD LOGIC
Intro to actions
Create workbook actions
Configure workbook actions
INTERACT
Interact with workbooks
Interact with charts
Collaborate in workbooks
Search for files in your organization
SHARE
Share a workbook
Share a folder
Share templates
Send or schedule workbook exports
Export data
Manage scheduled exports
About exporting data
CALCULATE
Operators overview
Use AI with formulas (Beta)
Perform AI queries
Functions
Metrics
Custom functions
EMBED
Intro to embedded analytics
Public embedding
Secure embedding
Advanced data security in embeds
Additional embedding configurations
Embed SDK for React
DEVELOP
Sigma API
Plugin development
ADMIN
Administer Sigma
Users and teams
Permissions
Authentication
Third-party integrations
Organization settings
Customize
Localize
Manage assets
Audit and usage
Develop
SUPPORT
Sigma support
Sigma product releases
Supported regions, data platforms, and features
Configure OAuth
Suggest Edits
You can use OAuth for centralized permission management between your cloud data warehouse (CDW) and your Sigma organization. Using OAuth has several advantages:
Authenticating Sigma users with OAuth minimizes the risk of password leaks or misuse, which is crucial for maintaining data security and privacy.
Connections authenticated with OAuth allow your users to read data and use write-back features like input tables, warehouse views, materializations, and CSV uploads with their own individual credentials instead of a service account.
Admins have the option to configure individual workbooks to run queries using the service account instead of each user’s OAuth credentials. See Run a workbook with service account credentials.
Requirements
You must be assigned the Admin account type to manage authentication for your Sigma organization.
About OAuth for permissions management
OAuth is a single sign-on (SSO) authorization framework that allows your users to securely log in to applications without the need for a username and password. This authorization happens between a client (you and your users) and one or more resources (i.e. Sigma and your CDW) via your Identity Provider (IdP).
Your IdP uses an authorization server and short-lived tokens to authenticate your application’s users.
Configuring OAuth allows your users to see only the data that they are permitted to see in the CDW. This is accomplished by establishing a chain of trust between your IdP, your CDW, and Sigma.
After you configure these three entities, you can enable OAuth on a per-connection basis in Sigma for any of your connections that support OAuth.
For an end-to-end walkthrough of an OAuth configuration using Snowflake and Okta, see the Open Authorization (OAuth) QuickStart.
Limitations of using OAuth in Sigma
OAuth is only supported for the following connection types:
Snowflake
Databricks
OAuth tokens can expire if the owner goes a significant amount of time without logging in to Sigma. If this happens, scheduled exports and other schedules fail. This limitation can be avoided by running the workbook as a service account. See Run a workbook with service account credentials.
When users configured in your IdP do not already have a Sigma account associated with their email address, Sigma auto-provisions them with a Sigma account with a Lite account type upon their first login. To change the account type for these users, an admin needs to manually adjust the account type assignments in Sigma. See Reassign members from a specific account type. This manual reassignment of account types is not required if you use SCIM for user and account management. See Manage users and teams with SCIM.
If you enable guest users in your Sigma organization, those guest users need to be provisioned with an account in your IdP in order to log into Sigma.
Plan your OAuth configuration
Your OAuth configuration differs depending on whether you use Snowflake or Databricks as your CDW. Select the configuration path that matches your environment:
Steps for configuring OAuth with Snowflake
Steps for configuring OAuth with Databricks
Steps for configuring OAuth with Snowflake
Follow the documentation for your IdP to create a Sigma OAuth application to enable authentication via your IdP, then connect to that OAuth application from Sigma. See Configure OAuth with Snowflake.
If you require write-back features in OAuth enabled connections, prepare your schema in Snowflake. See Configure OAuth with write access.
Update existing Snowflake connections to use OAuth, or create new ones. See Connect to Snowflake.
Steps for configuring OAuth with Databricks
Use Databricks as your IdP and set up a Sigma OAuth application to enable authentication through Databricks, then connect to that OAuth application from Sigma. See Configure OAuth with Databricks.
If you require write-back features in OAuth enabled connections, prepare your schema in Databricks. See Configure OAuth with write access.
Update existing Databricks connections to use OAuth, or create new ones. See Connect to Databricks.
Resources
Sigma home
Blog
Learn
Product FAQs
© 2025 Sigma Computing