Omni Named to 5th Annual Enterprise Tech 30 List
Presented by Wing Venture Capital
May 17, 2023
San Francisco, CA, May 16, 2023 - Omni Analytics, the business intelligence platform, today announced it has been named to the fifth annual Enterprise Tech 30 - a definitive list of the most promising, private enterprise tech companies across all stages of maturity. Omni ranks on the list of the ten companies in the Early category.
The Enterprise Tech 30 brings to light the Enterprise startups that have the most potential to meaningfully shift how enterprises operate for the better. Companies are inducted into the elite community through a selection-only process based on a successful background and substantial reach in enterprise technology. Nearly 600 venture-backed private enterprise tech companies across various stages were considered in the two-phase process by 96 Venture capitalists and 27 Corporate Development teams. Inductees to the ET30 are on a fast track of growth to change how business is done and are expected to be future IPOs and multi-billion dollar exits.
The companies are categorized by total capital raised. The Giga stage includes companies that have raised $1 billion or more; early-stage includes companies that have raised $35 million or less; mid-stage from $35 million to $150 million; and late-stage includes $150 million or more.
“We’re on a mission to build a product that feels like magic and a team that people love working with, “shares Colin Zima, CEO at Omni. “I’m proud of what we’ve done in such a short time and to be honored on the Enterprise Tech 30 list with such a great group of companies. We’ve got a lot of work to do, and even I’m more excited for what’s to come.”
Omni was founded by the teams that built Looker and Stitch to help people leverage the best of business intelligence by balancing workbook-style querying and visualization with consistency and governance. With Omni, the data model builds itself as you query - empowering everyone to quickly get started. Since launching, companies are migrating from legacy BI tools to Omni for its speed, scalability, and dedication to customer support. The Omni product continues to expand - releasing permissions, new versions of workbooks, and new security certifications - with much more on the product roadmap this year.
“Wing’s Enterprise Tech 30 list recognizes the most promising private, venture-back companies. These companies are leaders in their category, driving the change and innovation in the marketplace today to meet the needs of tomorrow,” said Peter Wagner, Founding Partner at Wing Venture Capital and founder of the Enterprise Tech 30. “Congratulations to all of the listees—they serve as the backbone of how businesses operate and are paving the way for business transformation.”
For more information on the research methodology, additional insights, and to view the results, visit enterprisetech30.com.
To leverage the best of business intelligence, explore Omni.
About the ET30
The Enterprise Tech 30 List, facilitated by Wing Venture Capital, definitively names the top 40 most promising private companies in enterprise technology, as determined by leading venture capitalists in the sector. It shares the knowledge of the venture capital and corporate development communities to determine which Enterprise startups have the most potential to meaningfully shift how tech enterprises operate for the better.
About Wing Venture Capital
Founded in 2013, Wing works with ambitious founders to enable the AI-first transformation of business. We invest early, before it’s obvious, leading Seed and Series A financings and engaging deeply with our signature company-building skills and resources. The current Wing portfolio includes some of today’s most important enterprise technology companies such as Snowflake, Cohesity, Pinecone, and Gong.
Web Twitter LinkedIn
For more information, visit: www.wing.vc
About Omni
Omni formed in February 2022 and secured $26.9m in funding with participation by First Round, Redpoint, GV, Box Group, Quiet Capital, Scribble Ventures and more than 100 angel investors. The team is made up of employees from Looker, Google, Stitch, Tableau, Boomi and other data ecosystem companies.