Omni named to inaugural Redpoint InfraRed 100
Recognizing business intelligence as cloud infrastructure
July 19, 2023
Chris Merrick
I’m proud to announce Omni’s recognition on the first edition of the Redpoint InfraRed 100, a list of the next 100 promising private companies in cloud infrastructure 🎉
I spent yesterday at Nasdaq with the Redpoint Ventures team along with some of our stellar peers on the list discussing the next generation of cloud infrastructure. Redpoint’s history of advising successful companies, such as Looker and Snowflake, helped shape the cloud industry and lay the path for Omni. And, it’s an honor to be recognized by Redpoint alongside so many great companies, including ClickHouse, Databricks, dbt Labs, and MotherDuck.
If ‘business intelligence’ isn’t the first thing you think of when you think ‘cloud infrastructure,’ I get it. But, at its best, BI is at the core of how companies understand and operate their businesses.
BI as cloud infrastructure
Beautiful data visualizations don’t conjure the same parallels to physical infrastructure as bits flowing across network bridges or heavy machines processing mountains of data. And too often BI is thought of as ‘the last mile’ in data journeys - the bow on top of more complex underlying pieces.
But, when done right, BI isn’t just packaging. It’s an operating system. Businesses should run on BI - delivering employees information for operational tasks, fueling strategic decision-making, and identifying risks and opportunities with enough time and detail to act. This can only happen when BI delivers reliable and secure data that can be used and trusted –everywhere.
From the start, we designed Omni to deliver on this promise to help our customers actually run their business on data.
BI has to be reliable and secure
All infrastructure has to be reliable and secure. Reliable business intelligence goes beyond dashboards that always load quickly (although that’s important, too!). BI tools need to securely deliver accurate data to the people who have permission to use it - where and when they need it.
Omni is built on top of a data model for exactly this reason. It contains the logic and structure that ensures data is used and interpreted properly. The Omni workbook user interface layers on top with an interactive, point-and-click experience to help both the SQL-savvy analysts and business stakeholders feel confident making decisions on trusted data.
The data model also enables security and governance. Our data model enforces data permissions to ensure everything - from datasets to individual records - is only viewable by those who have permission. This means that companies can give all employees access to data in Omni and still be confident they can only see data they are supposed to see.
Successful BI delivers data everywhere
Using data is all about informing better actions and results, which can only happen if the data meets people where they are and within context. Today, there are specialized tools for everyone - from data scientists, data analysts, and data engineers to CEOs, line of business leaders, and operators in every department. These tools tend to solve particular use cases really well, but they often don’t have access to all of the data, and can’t share the full context.
With BI, this has always been the aspiration - to bring it all together and help everyone work smarter. It’s the promise of a system of truth to answer all our questions, but in reality, that’s not usually met. Charts and dashboards aren’t enough; you need to empathize with and understand each user to build for them.
Yes, Omni has dashboards like every other BI tool. But we’re also making our workbook experience feel like Excel for your finance team, making it possible for your sales team to view reports embedded in Salesforce, and allowing you to email dashboards to anyone - because most people are going to check their email more than they would a BI tool…and that’s okay.
With Omni, we’re building the infrastructure to deliver data to you so you can run your business with data, everywhere decisions are made.