Omni achieves Select Tier Partner Status with Snowflake
June 5, 2024
SAN FRANCISCO, JUNE 4, 2024 — Omni today announced at Snowflake’s annual user conference, Snowflake Data Cloud Summit 2024, that it has achieved Select tier partner status from Snowflake, the AI Data Cloud company. This follows Snowflake Ventures’ recent investment in Omni for building the future of BI and data modeling. Now, as a Select partner, Omni can further accelerate the digital transformation of its joint customers who can fully leverage the performance, flexibility, and near-infinite scalability of the Snowflake AI Data Cloud.
“Data teams have been searching for a BI platform that makes it easy for everyone to access and make decisions with data. We’re excited to give customers fast ad-hoc data exploration, a scalable semantic model, and multiple analytical tools — including SQL, Excel functions, natural language, and a point-and-click UI — all in a single platform on top of the Snowflake AI Data Cloud,” said Jamie Davidson, Co-Founder, Omni.
Together, Omni and Snowflake help customers consolidate their data stacks, optimize spend, and get more out of their data. The pairing frees up time for data teams to invest in strategic work, while helping product teams accelerate development and create new revenue streams with fast, customizable embedded analytics. Engineering and product teams building customer-facing data products on Snowflake and Omni benefit from Omni’s flexibility, ease of use, and ability to ship quickly paired with Snowflake’s scalability to serve high-concurrency use cases.
“Omni and Snowflake’s Data Cloud create a powerful combination of capabilities to streamline data workflows to deliver modern, customized end-user experiences and help companies get faster value from their data,” said Tarik Dwiek, Head of Technology Alliances, Snowflake.
“Redefining our product and go-to-market strategy has resulted in exceptional growth, but it also meant we needed to maximize flexibility, performance, and ease of data access,” said Jade Khiev, Insights Engineering Lead at Rose Rocket. “With Omni and Snowflake, our internal users can self-serve and get fast answers. This frees up our technical resources to focus on delivering the very best product and customer experience.”
At the Snowflake Data Cloud Summit 2024, Rose Rocket will share how they’ve fostered a data-driven culture using Snowflake and Omni during their presentation, “Unlocking Self-Service on Unstructured Data with Omni”, on Wednesday, June 5 at 11:00 AM PDT. To learn why companies trust Omni to deliver the best of internal BI and user-facing analytics products, visit Booth #1217 at Snowflake Data Cloud Summit 2024.
The Snowflake Partner Network unlocks the potential of the Data Cloud with a broad array of tools and partners. Partnerships and integrations enable customers to leverage Snowflake’s flexibility, performance, and ease of use to deliver more meaningful data insights. To become a Snowflake partner and get access to Snowflake’s self-service partner resources, please click here.
Be sure to check out the Snowflake Data Cloud Summit 2024 keynotes live or on-demand here and stay on top of the latest news and announcements from Snowflake on LinkedIn and X/Twitter.