The trusted partner of data-driven teams
From early startups to global companies, we love helping people with data.
Explore case studies
Get started fast
Adopted by most teams within two weeks of implementation
Migrated all Looker models in under two days
Built a modern data product in less than a week
Migrated and achieved 100% adoption in under six weeks
Expect more from your data platform
Migrate faster
We help customers build data models from scratch, migrate content from previous BI tools, and create custom data products in days and weeks — not months.
Increase data access
Omni's user-friendly interface makes it easy for your business users and external customers to explore data independently and get the answers they need.
Conserve resources
Omni customers report decreasing the time their Data and Engineering teams spend fixing issues and fulfilling one-off requests, and reducing their BI spend.
Improve self-service
Omni balances the best of Looker's code-based modeling layer approach with the best of Tableau's self-service workbooks — empowering a wider variety of users to explore and consume without falling into the pitfall of complexity creep.
— Martin Zerbib @ Sifflet
Read the case study
Quote 1
Quote 2
Quote 3
Quote 4
Quote 5
Quote 6
Migrated tools and trained business users in < a month
Increased access to and value of data for Revenue Ops and Product teams
Reduced BI spend and gained more hands-on support
Read the case study
Increased adoption of BI by 30%
Migrated data models and reports in < 6 weeks
Increased dashboard speed by 2X
Read the case study
Sped up development and experimentation
Increased value of existing data investments including Snowflake and dbt
Increased self-service and data-driven decisions
Read the case study
Made data accessible to the entire team in < 2 weeks
Implemented Omni and migrated content in < a week
Gave users easier ways to view and analyze data
Read the case study
Gained a competitive advantage using real-time insights
Implemented Omni without a data team or expert
Provided performance dashboards to its portfolio companies
Read the case study
See what our customers build with Omni
PrimaryBid shipped a modern data product for their customers in under one week.
Learn More
Examples of PrimaryBid customer-facing dashboards built with Omni
Get more from your data and save resources
We wanted to give our customers a truly modern analytics experience without needing to invest significant front-end engineering resources to build it. Of the many embedded analytics products we evaluated, Omni was the only one that would make it possible for us to achieve that goal.
— Jonny Dungay, Analytics and BI Lead at PrimaryBid
Read the case study
Quote 1
Quote 2
Quote 3
Quote 4
Quote 5
Reduced data engineering tickets by 80%
Reduced BI spend by 50%
Simplified exploration of unstructured data
Read the case study
Five team members built a modern data product in < week
Created a competitive advantage with a modern customer experience
Increased internal data access company-wide
Read the case study
Reduced BI spend by 75%
Migrated all Looker models < 2 days
Made self-service possible for business users
Read the case study
Migrated completely in < 3 days
Made it easier for users to explore unstructured data
Redirected engineering resources to product development
Read the case study
Our team is committed to your success
Responses in real-time
With Omni, you'll get support while you're exploring or building with your data — not after you've moved onto something else.
Hands-on support
Whether you need help running a complex analysis, evolving your data model, building a dashboard, or simply finding a fix, just send us a link and we'll dive right in!
Help beyond Omni
Want help defining retention cohorts? Curious about best practices for data warehouse management? We're here to partner with you on all of it.
Learn about our customer support
Learn more about Omni
Business intelligence
Explore data easily
Build beautiful visualizations
Rapidly share findings
Learn more
Embedded analytics
Speed up product development
Increase customer engagement
Monetize your data
Learn more
Ready to get started?
Free Trial