Real-time support from our friendly team of data experts
Whatever you need to meet your data goals, we're here to help.
Free Trial
We treat your success like it's our own
When data is central to your business, you're bound to have questions about your BI tool and broader data stack. The Omni team is here to get you answers — fast.
Responses in real-time
With Omni, you'll get support while you're exploring or building with your data — not after you've moved onto something else.
Hands-on support
Whether you need help running a complex analysis, evolving your data model, building a dashboard, or simply finding a fix, just send us a link and we'll dive right in!
Help beyond Omni
Want help defining retention cohorts? Curious about best practices for data warehouse management? We're here to partner with you on all of it.
See what our customers have to say
The speed and support we got from Omni was amazing and saved our team a lot of time and resources. The team was a big selling point for me. Everyone is incredibly knowledgeable, passionate, and eager to make us successful.
— Dan Gaul, Chief Technical Officer
Read the case study
Quote 1
Quote 2
Quote 3
Customer love
Julie B.
Head of Data
"Omni Analytics is a sweet spot between Looker and Mode. It's easy for your team to use, like Looker, but also lets tech-savvy folks dig into data with SQL queries. Plus, the Omni team is super quick to support and brainstorm on new ideas."
Read full review
V
Verified User in Venture
Capital & Private Equity
"I am not a BI tool user nor a data engineer but am able to model data and create dashboards much easier than other tools we tried. The tool is fast and responsive. The team is helpful and supportive and if you want get under the hood it's very easy to do so"
Read full review
Hari A.
A super powerful BI tool. Omni addresses many of the struggles in legacy BI tools with novel approaches. The team has built with the analyst in mind so well. With Omni, data engineering can end a step or two earlier and rest of the magic is taken care of by the Omni UI. I also love how quickly Omni iterates and launches new features. Customer support of the finest levels too."
Read full review
G
Gabi P.
"As a non-technical person who is trying to understand how our customers are leveraging and getting value out of our product, I am always looking for ways to get my hands on data. The data will empower me to understand what happened so I can adjust or predict what will happen so I can better control the outcome. Omni is the first data tool I've used that allows me more freely (as a non-technical person) to do this. I don't have to rely on an engineer to do it for me. In a startup that is moving fast, this is imperative. Omni has also offered fantastic customer support, the team is smart and very responsive."
Read full review
Dylan H.
Senior Software Engineer
"The support we've received from the Omni team has been truly incredible. Their customer service alone is a reason to switch. Every time we've needed help (even if it's just folks new to SQL who need a hand) the team has responded in minutes. If we find a bug, it's usually fixed in nothing flat. If we need a feature, we often see them add it within hours or days -- not weeks. Before you spin up anything else, give Omni a shot. It's worth it."
Read full review
S
Sebastien C.
VP of Sales
"The other thing that's most enjoyable about working with Omni is the team. They hit all the marks that you'd expect from a top vendor! Super responsive support, very friendly and helpful advices, new & super valuable features being released almost daily... it's a pleasure to see the speed at which the product is evolving. It already a great solution, it's getting better everyday and you're supported by one of the most knowledgeable team there is - it is absolutely the best value-for-money one can find in the BI Market right now."
Read full review
Helpful resources
You can always reach us on Slack, but here are a few other ways to learn more about Omni.
Docs
Check out our docs for all the technical details of the product.
Community
Browse our Community site for how-to articles and best practices.
Engineering Demos
Watch our weekly Engineering Demos to see what we're building.
FAQs
How do I get help from the Omni team?
Who can I expect to answer my questions?
Where can I learn more about Omni's approach to customer support?
Ready to get started?
Free Trial