Content ManagementEditing & publishing content
On this page
Editing & publishing documents
Every Omni document has two states: draft and published. Drafts are isolated instances of a document, including its workbook and dashboard. When a draft is published, a new, read-only version of the document is created. All users who have access to the document will see this version.
Incorporating drafts into your Omni workflow allows you to:
Make incremental progress. With small, manageable goals, it's easy to show progress without waiting for your work to be perfect.
Explore without commitment. Whether you're working solo or with a team, utilizing drafts lets you iterate on ideas without worrying about the final product.
Increase your efficiency. Drafts enable you and your teammates to view each other's changes and collaborate in a controlled environment, preventing overlap and ensuring that everyone's contributions remain distinct.
Limitations
Documents can only have one draft at a time. This means that users who have edit access to a document 'share' the same draft.
Model changes can only be promoted from the published version of a document. Refer to the Model management guide for more information about promoting model changes.
Themes can only be managed from the published version of a document. The File > Theming option will be disabled while viewing a draft. Exit the draft to access and manage themes.
Opening & editing drafts
Analyses must be saved as documents before you can create a draft. To create or open a draft, click File > Edit or the Edit button in the top right corner of the document. Note: If a draft already exists for a document, this will open the existing draft.
Changes in a draft - including those to models, queries, or the dashboard - are only visible in the draft, meaning they won't affect the published version of the document. This ensures that you can safely iterate without impacting those viewing the published document.
Clicking Leave draft saves the changes made to the draft and opens the published version of the document.
Collaborating in drafts
To collaborate efficiently, Omni recommends:
Ensuring only one user at a time edits a draft, which will reduce the likelihood of authors stepping on each other. This is because, currently, a document can only have one draft at a time, which means authors will 'share' the draft.
Working small. Creating and publishing small changes allows you to work more quickly and make a document's version history easier to follow.
WANT TO EXPLORE WITHOUT OPENING A DRAFT?
Sometimes, it can be useful to explore a document without creating a draft. For example, when multiple authors want to edit the same document.
There a few ways to create copies that will allow you to explore without overwriting changes in a draft:
I want to copy... Document state How to
An entire document (workbook & dashboard) Published File > Duplicate
Current workbook tab Any Tab > New analysis from here or the Star icon next to Both (published) or Options (draft)
Workbook only Any Analyze button in top right corner of the document
Viewing and restoring draft changes
To view all changes made in a draft, click the Document changes (clock icon) in a draft workbook. The Draft changes panel will display a list of all changes made to the draft workbook.
You can revert to an earlier version of the draft by clicking an individual change, then Restore.
Archiving drafts
Archiving a draft allows you to remove an existing draft without deleting it. When a draft is archived, the draft is stored in a separate Archived section of the workbook. Archived drafts are retained for 30 days.
Any user with edit access can archive or restore an archived draft:
Open the document's Workbook.
Click View drafts (document icon) near the bottom left corner of the page.
Click an archived draft and view it, restore it, or use it to start a new notebook.
Note: Restoring an archived draft will replace the document's active draft. Omni will prompt you to confirm the restoration before proceeding.
Publishing drafts
When a draft is published, the changes in the draft will replace the currently published version of the document. The published version of a document is read-only, but you can still drill down and use dashboard filters. To make changes to the workbook or dashboard, open a draft of the document.
You can restore a previously published version of a document using the File > Version history option. Refer to the Workbook documentation for more information.
Viewing published documents
A document's folder location and permissions determine if it's visible to other users. For example, if you saved the document in your Personal folder but didn't grant access to anyone, only you will be able to see the document, regardless of whether it's been published.
Previous
Organizing content
Next
Sharing content