Schedules & AlertsOverview
On this page
Schedules & Alerts
Automating the delivery of dashboards and tiles makes it easy for your team to stay informed and make data-driven decisions. Omni offers two ways to automate sharing content, which can be delivered to destinations like Slack or webhooks:
Schedules, which deliver content at specified frequencies
Alerts, which deliver content only if specific conditions are met
Embedded Omni instances also support this functionality.
NEED SOME INSPIRATION?
Check out our Alerts for operational workflows blog post to see how some Omni customers use alerts!
Destinations
MULTIPLE DESTINATIONS
A delivery can only have one destination. To deliver to multiple destinations, you'll need to create a delivery for each destination. For example, to deliver a dashboard to email and Slack, you'll need to create two deliveries.
A destination is the channel or service Omni will send deliveries to. Omni currently supports the following delivery destinations:
Destination How it works
Email Sends an email to one or more recipients. Recipients can be other users in your Omni organization or non-users, such as an external stakeholder. Supports customizing sender options, such as email domain. Learn more.
SFTP Delivers content to an existing SFTP server. Learn more.
Slack Delivers content to individual Slack users, public channels, and private channels. Set up in Slack is required prior to use in Omni. Learn more.
Webhook Sends a request to a webhook URL, such as a Zapier webhook. Recipients are determined by the webhook's configuration. Learn more.
Delivery permissions
The ability to create deliveries can be controlled through instance and document-level settings:
Instance - In Settings > General > Content permissions, Organization Admins can select the default abilities for documents.
Document - In a document, navigate to File > Document Settings to select the abilities other users can have when accessing the document.
Getting started
Ready to get started? Refer to the Creating deliveries guide to learn how.
Previous
Dynamic variables
Next
Setup