EmbeddingExternal embeddingLimitations
On this page
Embedding limitations
Session length
Currently, using a valid embed URL will create an embed session that lasts 24 hours. That embed session will be unusable after 24 hours. Visiting a new, valid embed SSO URL at any time will create a new session.
Chrome incognito
Using Chrome in Incognito mode requires allowing third-party cookies. These can be found under Chrome > Settings... > Privacy and Security > Third-party cookies. Enable the Allow third-party cookies option.
Copying values
Iframes, by default, restrict access to the "clipboard" of the viewing device. When you click on a data value within Omni and select Copy value, the value will not be copied to your clipboard.
To allow copying data values from an embedded Omni iframe, you will need to add allow="clipboard-write" to your iframe declaration. For example:
<iframe src={omni-embed-url} allow="clipboard-write" />
If you want stricter permissions, you can modify the allow clause to include the specific domain you want to permit "clipboard-write" access for. For example:
<iframe src={omni-embed-url} allow="clipboard-write self https://acme.embed-omniapp.co/" />
Safari, mobile Safari, & mobile iOS Chrome support
Omni currently uses cookies to manage its authentication sessions. When embedded in iframes, browsers like Safari view these as third-party cookies. By default, Safari takes a privacy-minded stance on these cookies and blocks them, effectively blocking access to Omni content.
There are a few options to allowing authorization in Safari, each with their own pros and cons:
Option How it works Pros Cons
Safari default behavior Uses a multi-step handshake to allow third-party cookies
No set up or end-user changes required
Retains Safari's default cookie behavior and anti-tracking philosophy
Extra steps to authorize cookies and log in
Vanity domain Allows cookies from Omni to originate from the embedding domain
Eliminates the multi-step Safari authorization flow
Retains Safari's default privacy setup
Infrastructure setup required
Default Safari behavior
Safari provides a complicated meet-and-greet handshake to enable third-party cookies in supported contexts, which requires explicit action by the end-user. The steps are:
Attempt to load the Omni dashboard. If a Cookies are not permitted message displays, a button that will send the user to the Omni instance being embedded will display.
Once the embedded Omni instance has been visited in a non-embedded context, send the user back to the embedded context.
Present the form again which will now prompt the user to allow access to "use cookies and website data". Clicking Allow will redirect the user and display the embedded dashboard.
This process should only be required the first time a user accesses embedded content in Safari. However, occasionally Safari may ask the user to authorize access again.
Vanity domains
Vanity domains eliminate Safari's multi-step auth flow only if Omni is embedded in the same parent domain as the vanity domain. For example, omni.myapp.co is embedded in myapp.co.
Refer to the Customization & Interactivity guide for more information about setting up a vanity domain.
Previous
Monitoring usage
Next
Overview