Schedules & AlertsSetup
On this page
Creating schedules & alerts
A scheduled delivery will run at a given date/time regardless of results
Requirements
To follow the steps in this guide, you'll need:
Permissions in Omni that allow you to create schedules and alerts.
An existing destination to send deliveries to. Refer to the destination setup guides for more information:
Email
SFTP
Slack
Webhook
1. Create the delivery
In a dashboard:
Click File > Deliveries & Alerts. The delivery options will display on the left side of the page.
Fill in the following:
Delivery - Select Schedule or Alert.
Send - Select the content to be delivered.
Destination - Select where the delivery should be sent: Email, SFTP, Slack, or webhook.
Name - Enter a name for the delivery.
If creating an alert, use the Alert tab to define the conditions that must be met to trigger the delivery. For example, you have a chart that tracks the Total sales for your ecommerce company. Using an alert, you can trigger a delivery when the total of your sales has changed.
2. Configure the delivery schedule
All delivery types require a schedule:
For schedules, this determines when Omni will deliver the specified content to a destination
For alerts, this tells Omni when to check if the current query results meet the conditions required to send the delivery
To define the delivery's schedule, use the UI options (Daily, Weekly, etc.) to select a time period. For more control over timing, click the Custom option to use custom cron expressions.
Note: By default, schedules are set in the local timezone of the delivery creator's computer. Use the Times are in drop down to change the timezone.
Custom cron schedules (Advanced)













3. Select format & filter options
In the Dashboard or Chart tab, you can select the format of the content, such as PNG or CSV, and set filter values for the delivery.
Note: Dashboard deliveries will automatically apply the dashboard's default filters. Use the Filters section to specify different filter values for the delivery.
DID YOU KNOW?
You can use filters to customize content for different recipients! For example, set a filter to A in a scheduled delivery to recipient A, and in another scheduled delivery to recipient B, set a filter to B.
4. Configure destination settings
The last step is to define where the delivery will be sent. Click the last tab, which will be labeled with the type of Destination you selected.
Email
SFTP
Slack
Webhook
5. Test the delivery
THIS STEP IS OPTIONAL.
If you want to test the delivery before saving, click the Test Now button in the bottom left corner of the page. This will send the dashboard/chart to the destination using the current settings. For example, using Test Now would send the delivery to all Recipients.
6. Save the delivery
When finished, click Save to create the delivery.
Previous
Overview
Next
Email