Schedules & AlertsWebhooksZapier
On this page
Sending Omni webhook deliveries to Zapier
When paired with Omni webhook deliveries, Zapier enables you to send information from Omni to a variety of other apps and services. In this guide, you'll learn how to use Zapier to catch a webhook from Omni and export data to Google Sheets.
Requirements
To follow along, you'll need:
An Omni dashboard with a tile configured for export. Note: While entire dashboards can be delivered using webhooks, this example requires data in a CSV format, which isn't currently supported for entire dashboards.
A Zapier account. Note: Some Zapier features, such as webhooks, may require a Pro plan.
An existing Google Sheet
1. Copy the Zapier template
To get started, copy a Zapier template to your account:
Option 1: Overwrite the existing tab in a Google Sheet. Each time the Zap runs, Zapier will overwrite the data in the selected tab with new data.
Option 2: Create a new timestamped tab. Each time the Zap runs, Zapier will create a new tab in the worksheet and use the current timestamp as part of the tab's title.
2. Create the Zapier webhook
In Zapier, click the trigger step in the workflow, which should be labeled as Catch Raw Hook.
Click Continue.
Click Test Trigger.
Copy the webhook URL that displays after the test.
3. Create and test the Omni delivery
In Omni:
Follow the steps to create a delivery.
Set the Destination to Webhook.
Set the Format to CSV.
Click the Webhook tab.
Paste the Zapier webhook URL into the Webhook URL field.
Click the Test Now button, which will send a test webhook request to Zapier.
In Zapier:
In the trigger step, click Test Trigger.
If the delivery was successful, a request A will display. Click the request to open the request data.
Locate the Raw Body key, which will contain the CSV data. Verify that the data is correct before continuing.
4. Parse the CSV
In Zapier, click the second step in the workflow, which should be labeled Line items from CSV.
Fill in the fields as follows:
CSV file - Set to the Raw body field from the workflow's trigger step
Has header row - Set to True
Delimiter - Set to Comma
Click Continue.
Click Test step and verify that the parsed data is correct before continuing.
5. Configure Google Sheet settings in Zapier
Click the option you selected in Step 1 to view instructions:
Option 1: Overwrite existing tab
Option 2: Create new timestamped tabs
6. Populate the data
Click the option you selected in Step 1 to view instructions:
Option 1: Overwrite existing tab
Option 2: Create new timestamped tabs
7. Finalize the workflow
In Zapier, click the Publish button and follow the prompts. The workflow should now be active.
In Omni:
Navigate to the delivery you created in Step 3.
Click the options menu (three dots) and then Send Now.
After a few seconds, check the Google Sheet for updated data.
Troubleshooting
For table exports from Omni, consider disabling totals for the export.
Ensure column names and order match between Omni, Zapier, and Google Sheets configurations.
Verify webhook URL is correctly copied from Zapier to Omni.
Previous
Google Apps Script
Next
Settings