Fast and flexible embedded analytics
Quickly add customer-facing analytics to your product without sacrificing the speed, security, and brand your customers know and love.
Build exceptional data products with Omni
Give your customers the insights they need, without slowing down or lowering your standards.
Speed up product development
Ship faster and deliver a premium experience at scale with our extensible dashboard components and modern architecture.
Increase customer engagement
Deliver valuable insights and a world-class user experience via beautiful visualizations and dashboards — without an enterprise price tag.
Monetize your data
Outshine your competitors and create new revenue streams with rich, customized data content that's easy to maintain.
Look no further for fast dashboards
Your customers should't have to wait. Omni dashboards load instantly, unlike legacy tools.
Omni
232,124
Events
20%
112,058
Sessions
8%
27,752
Users
12%
Sources
Purchase Funnel
Sessions
Let your customers create and share their own reports
Give users the power to build their own analyses with AI, Excel calcs, or a point-and-click UI — right inside of your product.
Learn How
See what our customers build with Omni
PrimaryBid shipped a modern data product for their customers in under one week.
Learn More
Examples of PrimaryBid customer-facing dashboards built with Omni
We wanted to give our customers a truly modern analytics experience without needing to invest significant front-end engineering resources to build it. Of the many embedded analytics products we evaluated, Omni was the only one that would make it possible for us to achieve that goal.
— Jonny Dungay, Analytics and BI Lead at PrimaryBid
Read the case study
Everything you need to build data into your product
You're the expert in your product. We're experts in data.
Fast
Show your customers instant results with analytics run on modern architecture that combines in-database and in-memory processing with intelligent caching.
Customized
Easily create beautiful, branded data experiences using customizable visualizations and extensible components including markdown elements to add links, texts, images, and more.
Governed
Deliver accurate metrics that instill trust — all defined in our governed data model to help you easily standardize, maintain, and update as you need.
Scalable
Quickly build, iterate, reuse, and maintain customer-facing reports as your needs evolve, without engineering resources or enterprise prices.
Secure
Meet all industry-leading security and privacy requirements with row and column-level permissions, content controls, user attributes, and SSO authentication — all in compliance with SOC 2, HIPAA, and GDPR standards.
Supported
Get expert advice and hands-on support from a team with decades of experience in data infrastructure, delivery, and monetization.
One platform for all your users
Everyone wants data, but not everyone wants to log into a BI tool to get it. The Omni Platform powers internal reporting, operationalizes data into workflows, and puts dashboards and visualizations directly into your product.
Internal Analytics
Operational Analytics
Embedded Analytics
Workbook
Workbook
Workbook
Shared Model
Schema
Materialized
Are you looking for a business intelligence solution?
We do that, too 😉 Learn more about our core platform.
Governed, self-service
Beautiful visualizations
Operational analytics
Learn More