Omni seamlessly integrates with your data stack
Free Trial
Connect directly to your data
Omni has native integrations with the most popular data warehouses. Once connected to your data, our intelligent cache delivers results fast — without limiting how deeply you can explore.
Amazon Redshift
Google BigQuery
Snowflake
Databricks
MySQL
MotherDuck
Postgres
Microsoft SQL Server
Clickhouse
Trino
dbt
Streamline your analytics engineering
Omni's bi-directional dbt integration goes further than any other BI integration to eliminate complexity and effort in your analytics engineering workflow.
Seamlessly surface dbt model changes in Omni
Pull dbt context into Omni for deeper visibility
Author dbt models from Omni model definitions
Deliver data where your team needs it
With Omni, everyone on your team has the freedom to access and act on data within their preferred workflow. Securely share reports and dashboards via URL, schedule emails, or embed iframes in other apps.
Schedule reports to send via email
Automatically send essential reports and dashboards to keep your team up-to-date on progress towards goals and give executives an overview of business performance.
Share dashboards in Slack
Schedule company-wide KPI and team dashboards to be sent to specific people or channels. Add filter parameters to your content so that individuals only follow what's relevant to their work.
Embed data anywhere
Quickly embed dashboards and reports into the tools where your team is already working. Omni works with most popular SaaS platforms, including Salesforce, Notion, and more.
One platform to meet all your needs
Built on modern, cloud-native architecture to power fast, scalable, and trustworthy analytics.
Internal Analytics
Operational Analytics
Embedded Analytics
Workbook
Workbook
Workbook
Shared Model
Schema
Materialized
Learn more about Omni
Business intelligence
Explore data easily
Build beautiful visualizations
Rapidly share findings
Learn more
Embedded analytics
Speed up product development
Increase customer engagement
Monetize your data
Learn more