The fast and scalable analytics platform
Analyze, define, and visualize key metrics, and build exceptional customer-facing data products — all on a single platform.
Free Trial
Fast
Explore your data immediately and get instant query results with analytics run on modern architecture.
Flexible
Easily communicate findings with beautiful out-of-the-box visualizations and customizable components, including links, texts, and images.
Governed
Define, standardize, and maintain metrics in a shared data model so your team can use them anywhere and always trust the results.
Scalable
Quickly build, maintain, reuse, and iterate on internal and external-facing reports without wasting engineering resources or paying enterprise prices.
Secure
Meet all industry-leading security and privacy requirements with row and column-level permissions, content controls, user attributes, and SSO authentication.
Supported
Get expert advice and hands-on support from a team with decades of experience in data infrastructure, delivery, analysis, and monetization.
What makes Omni different
Analytics without compromises — or an enterprise price tag.
Flexible
Fast time-to-value
Simple ad hoc analysis
Easy data integrations
Democratized access
Governed
Reliable, curated metrics
Clear permissions
Centralized management
Operational workflows
Best of both worlds
Our intuitive point-and-click UI enables business users to explore data independently. Power users can choose between SQL or familiar spreadsheet-style formulas.
A data model that doesn't slow you down
Start exploring data immediately and build governance as you query. You can also use your existing dbt model.
Instant results
Our intelligent cache uses in-database and in-memory compute to load query results and dashboards instantly, so your team never has to wait.
Hands-on support
With Omni, you get more than just great software. Our expert team replies in real-time to answer your team's questions and help you get the most out of your data.
One platform to meet all your analytics needs
Everyone wants data, but not everyone wants to log into a BI tool to get it. The Omni Platform powers internal reporting, operationalizes data into workflows, and puts dashboards and visualizations directly into your product.
Internal Analytics
Operational Analytics
Embedded Analytics
Workbook
Workbook
Workbook
Shared Model
Schema
Materialized
How does Omni work?
Direct connections to your data
Omni has native integrations with the most common data warehouses, including AWS Redshift, Google BigQuery, Snowflake, Databricks, MySQL, Postgres, and MotherDuck.
Our intelligent cache uses in-database and in-memory compute to optimize query performance at every level, deliver instant results, and drill into row-level detail in the database.
Automated data modeling
Omni's unique approach to data modeling ensures consistency and accuracy while retaining the flexibility for ad hoc exploration. You can start exploring data instantly and update the model as you go.
Our three core modeling layers reflect the:
raw database
governed data model
ad hoc workbook environment
The workbook layer can be used for exploration and one-off queries and to make changes that can be promoted back to the shared model.
Bi-directional dbt integration
Omni's dbt integration is bi-directional to:
seamlessly surface dbt model changes in Omni
pull dbt context into Omni for deeper visibility
author dbt models from Omni model definitions
Easy data exploration
Point-and-click UI
Our UI allows everyone to confidently explore data without writing a single line of code. Users can simply click to create new queries and dashboards, or build on existing ones by adding new filters and fields or making changes to visualizations.
Spreadsheet formulas
Users who prefer working in spreadsheets like Excel can efficiently explore data and create new metrics directly from our workbook UI, no SQL required. Omni Calculations are compatible with the popular spreadsheet formulas many already know and love.
=
(
B8
-
B1
)
/
B1
A
B
C
Orders
Created Date
Orders
Orders Count
% Change
1
2023-10-05
401
⌀
2
2023-10-06
357
⌀
3
2023-10-07
347
⌀
4
2023-10-08
252
⌀
5
2023-10-09
282
⌀
6
2023-10-10
419
⌀
7
2023-10-11
406
⌀
8
2023-10-12
389
=
(
B8
-
B1
)
/
B1
9
2023-10-13
332
-7%
10
2023-10-14
349
0.58%
SQL mode
When you write SQL in Omni, our SQL Super Powers feature automatically parses and restructures your query. Your newly modeled concepts then become accessible in the field picker in the UI so you can efficiently reuse the logic in the future.
We have a lot of people who are Excel power users and they love the ability to pivot quickly in Omni.
— Griffin Tschurwald, Head of Engineering
Read the case study
Flexible components
Customizable visualizations
Omni has a large library of beautiful out-of-the-box visualizations that you can customize to your liking using our advanced editor, supported by VegaLite. You can also choose from flexible markdown elements to create stylized and dynamic visualizations made up of text, images, charts, and more.
Fast and flexible embedded iframes
Omni reports and dashboards can be embedded into the internal apps where your team is already working (such as Salesforce) and into your product to create more value for your customers. The embedded dashboards will follow the permissions you set in the app and Omni using SSO, so users will only ever see the data they're supposed to.
Easy sharing
Securely share content via URL, scheduled reports, or embedded iframes so anyone with permissions can access and act on data within their preferred workflow.
Scalable platform administration
Permissions
Organizational administrators can manage user permissions and data connections to ensure security. Users can be granted varying levels of access at the connection level including no access, viewer, restricted querier, querier, and admin.
User attributes
User attributes make it easy to scale user management by mapping user-specific variables to actions such as querying, dashboarding, or general permissions. For example, you can use user attributes to restrict accessible rows of data via Access Filters.
Expert data support
You're the expert in your business and product, and we're your experts in data. Our team's here to help you with Omni, plus anything else you need to get the most out of your data, — whether that's introductions to partners, advice on building a data-driven culture, or support monetizing your data with in-app reporting.
Learn more about Omni
Business intelligence
Explore data easily
Build beautiful visualizations
Rapidly share findings
Learn more
Embedded analytics
Speed up product development
Increase customer engagement
Monetize your data
Learn more