Secure cloud analytics
Built by a team with years of experience — we know how to keep your data secure.
Platform security
Our platform is designed to prioritize the security of customer data. Encryption and isolation are used to keep data and credentials secure, and systems are strictly access-controlled on the basis of least privilege. Penetration testing and vulnerability scanning are used to proactively identify and close vulnerabilities.
Organization security
Our hiring and training processes emphasize data security as our most important job.
Our security program implements rigorous controls to protect customer data, including personnel background checks and regular security training.
Compliance
Our team is committed to maintaining the compliance needed by our customers. This includes annual SOC 2 Type II audits and meeting the standards of the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), California Privacy Rights Act (CCPA), and Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA).
SOC 2
HIPAA
GDPR
CCPA
Modern analytics with robust security features
Governed data model
Control access to data on the view (table) and field (column) level
Row-based filtering based on user permissions
Model change management
Powerful security administration
Granular permission roles
Permissions on the user and group level
User attribute-based access control for flexible data permissions
SAML
Secure data connectivity and processing
Data connections are encrypted
Tunneled connections to securely access data in private networks
Data stays encrypted inside the Omni platform
One secure platform for all your data needs
Learn more about our security practices
Data & infrastructure security
Infrastructure provider
Data encryption
Access control
Network security & system monitoring
Personnel security
Formal security policy
Onboarding & offboarding process
Development
Penetration Testing
Application monitoring
Change management
Third-party vendor security
Contact our team
Omni follows strict privacy laws and security standards to help keep our customers safe. If you'd like to learn more or request access to audit reports or other security documentation, please contact your account team or security@omni.co.
Ready to get started?
Request Live Demo
Watch tour video